FINAL FANTASY VII

Game Script

Asch the Hated
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
01: Rules of Script Usage
02: DISC 1 Game Script
03: DISC 2 Game Script
04: DISC 3 Game Script
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
01: Rules of Script Usage

You will not use this script for publishing purposes, as it is illegal.

If you see something that needs correction, e-mail me at
patientascher@hotmail.com. Please only e-mail me for corrections.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
02: DISC 1 Game Script

We begin this game by watching a movie of outer space then the flower girl
walking in the alley. The camera zooms out and views the city of Midgar. The
Final Fantasy VII logo appeared. Then, the train stopped near the Reactor.
Jessie and Biggs got out and knocked down the guards. Everyone came out of the
train.

The leader of AVALANCHE: C'mon newcomer. Follow me.

The EX-SOLDIER fights 2 MPs. After the EX-SOLDIER defeats the MPs, The
EX-SOLDIER moves on and met up with the AVALANCHE.

Biggs: WOW! You used to be in SOLDIER all right! ...Not everyday ya find one in
a group like AVALANCHE.

Jessie: SOLDIER? Aren't they the enemy? What's he doing us in AVALANCHE?

Biggs: Hold it Jessie. He WAS in SOLDIER. He quit them and now is one of us.
Didn't catch your name…

EX-SOLDIER: …Cloud.

Biggs: Cloud, eh? I'm…

Cloud: (interrupts) I don't care what your names are. Once this job's over...
I'm outta here.

The EX-SOLDIER will be known as Cloud from this point on. The leader of
AVLANCHE appeared at the scene.

The leader of AVLANCHE: The hell you're doin'!? I thought I told you never to
move in a group! Our target's the North Mako Reactor. We'll meet on the bridge
in front of it.

Jessie opened the gate and Jessie, Biggs, and Wedge moved on.

Barret: EX-SOLDIER, huh? Don't trust ya!

Cloud watches the Mako Reactor and hurries on to the reactor. Cloud heads into
the reactor.

Barret: Yo! This your first time in a reactor?

Cloud: No. After all, I did work for Shinra, y'know.

Barret: The planet's full of Mako energy. People here use it everyday. It's the
life blood of this planet. But Shinra keeps suckin' the blood out with these
weird machines.

Cloud: I'm not here for a lecture. Let's just hurry.

Barret: That's it! You're comin' with me from now on.

Jessie and Biggs deciphered the door codes and opened them. Cloud’s group
proceeds to the elevator. While going down, Barret speaks with Cloud.

Barret: Little by little the reactor'll drain out all the life. And that'll be
that.

Cloud: It's not my problem.

Barret: The planet's dyin', Cloud!

Cloud: The only thing I care about is finishin' this job before security and
the Roboguards come.

Barret got mad. Cloud and Barret moves on. Later, Cloud and Barret reached the
reactor.

Barret: When we blow this place, this ain't gonna be nothin' more than a hunka
junk. Cloud, you set the bomb.

Cloud: Shouldn't you do it?

Barret: Jus' do it! I gotta watch to make sure you don't pull nothin'.

Cloud: Fine, be my guest.

Cloud is reacting from the reactor and hears a mysterious voice from his body
reaction.

Mysterious Voice: Watch out! This isn't just a reactor!!

Cloud regained his sense.

Barret: ……What's wrong?

Cloud: Huh?

Barret: What's wrong, Cloud? Hurry it up!

Cloud: …Yeah, sorry.

Cloud sets the bomb. After that…

Barret: Heads up, here they come!

Cloud and Barret fights Guard Scorpion. After Cloud and Barret defeats Guard
Scorpion...

Cloud: Come on, let's get outta here!

Cloud and Barret got ten minutes to get out. Cloud quickly helped Jessie when
her leg was stuck. Jessie and Biggs deciphered the door codes and opened the
doors. They all got out and approached to safety. We watch a movie of the
reactor blowing up. Afterwards…

Biggs: That should keep the planet going... at least a little longer.

Wedge: Yeah.

Barret: ………

Jessie: OK! Now everyone get back.

The bomb blew up the locked gate. Cloud’s group went through.

Barret: All right, now let's get out of here. Rendezvous at Sector 8 Station!
Split up and get on the train!

Cloud: H, hey!

Barret: If it's about your money, save it 'til we're back at the hideout.

Cloud moves on. On his way, he met the flower girl.

Flower Girl: Excuse me. What happened?

Cloud: Nothing… hey, listen... …………Don't see many flowers around here.

Flower Girl: Oh, these? Do you like them? They're only a gil...?

Cloud: Buy one.

Flower Girl: Oh, thank you! (took out a flower) Here you are!

After that, Cloud moves on. Suddenly, Shinra Soldiers surrounded him. We watch
a movie of Cloud jumping on the moving train. Meanwhile inside the train...

Wedge: Cloud never came.

Biggs: Cloud…… Wonder if he was killed?

Barret: No way!!

Jessie: Cloud……

Biggs: Say, do you think Cloud's…… Going to fight to the end for AVALANCHE!?

Barret: The hell would I know!? Do I look like a mind reader? Hmph!! If y'all
weren't such screw-ups…

Wedge: Hey, Barret! What about our money...?

Barret slams his right mechanical machine gun arm on the crate.

Wedge: Uh, nothin' ...sorry.

Familiar Voice: Ahhh……

Cloud opened the door and got in from the scene.

Biggs: Cloud!!

Jessie: Cloud……

Wedge: Cloud!!

Cloud: Looks like I'm a little late.

Barret: You damn right, you're late!! Come waltzin' in here makin' a big scene!

Cloud: It's no big deal. Just what I always do.

Barret: Shit! Havin' everyone worried like that you don't give a damn 'bout no
one but yourself!

Cloud: Hmm……you were worried about me!

Barret: Wha!? I'm takin' it outta your money, hot stuff! (to everyone) Wake up!
We're movin' out! Follow me!

Wedge: Hey, Cloud!! You were great back there!

Biggs: Heh heh…… Cloud! We'll do even better next time.

Jessie: Be careful I'll shut this. (shuts the door) Oh, Cloud!! Your face is
pitch-black…… (wiping Cloud's face) There you go!! Say, thanks for helping me
back there at the Reactor!

Cloud proceeds to the next car. Barret’s anger scared some people in that car
away.

Conductor: Last train out of Sector 8 Station. Last stop is Sector 7, Train
Graveyard. Expected time of arrival is 12:23AM, Midgar Standard Time...

Cloud spoke to Jessie.

Jessie: Hey, Cloud. You want to look at this with me? It's a map of the Midgar
Railing System. Let's look at it together. I'll explain it to you. I like this
kinda stuff. Bombs and monitors…you know, flashy stuff. Okay, it's about to
start. This is a complete model of city of Midgar. It's about 1/10000 scale.
The top plate is about 50 meters above ground. A main support structure holds
the plate up in the center, and there are other support structures built in
each section… …psst…whisper…whisper… (The No. 1 Reactor we blew up was in the
northern section.) Then there's No. 2, No. 3 all the way up to the No. 8
Reactor. The 8 Reactors provide Midgar with electricity. Each town used to have
a name, but no one in Midgar remembers them. Instead of names, we refer to them
by numbered sectors. That's the kind of place this is. Phew…, this is next!
Look. This is the route this train is on. The route spirals around the main
support structure. We should be coming around the center area, right now. At
each checkpoint, an ID sensor device is set up. It can check the identities and
background on each and every passenger on the train by linking it up to the
central data bank at Shinra Headquarters. …whisper… whisper… (Anyone could tell
that we look suspicious so we're using fake ID's. Speak of the devil… That
light means that we're in the ID Security Check area.) …whisper… whisper… (When
the lights go off, you never know what kind of creeps'll come out.) …anyhow,
we're almost back now. That's a relief.

Cloud talks to Barret.

Barret: Look…you can see the surface now. This city don't have no day or night.
If that plate weren't there…we could see the sky.

Cloud: A floating city... Pretty unsettling scenery.

Barret: Huh? Never expect ta hear that outta someone like you. …you jes' full
of surprise. The upper world…a city on a plate… It's 'cuz of that #$@*&#'
pizza', that people underneath are sufferin'! And the city below is full of
polluted air. On topa that, the Reactor keeps drainin' up all the energy.

Cloud: Then why doesn't everyone move onto the Plate?

Barret: Dunno. Probably 'cuz they ain't got no money. Or, maybe… 'Cuz they love
their land, no matter how polluted it gets.

Cloud: I know…no one lives in the slums because they want to. It's like this
train. It can't run anywhere except where its rails take it.

We watch a movie of the train moving through a large city of Midgar. After the
train stopped. Cloud’s group got out.

Barret: Yo!! Get over here, all'ya!! This mission was a success. But don't get
lazy now. The hard part's still to come! Don't y'all be scared of that
explosion! 'Cause the next one's gonna be bigger than that! Meet back at the
hideout!! Move out!

Cloud’s group moves on. In the slums, Barret fires his mechanical arm gun and
scared everyone in the 7th Heaven bar away from the scene. After that…

Barret: (to Cloud) Ok! Go on ahead.

Cloud goes inside.

Marlene: Papa!!

Tifa: Marlene! Aren't you going to say anything to Cloud? Welcome, Cloud. Looks
like everything went well. Did you fight with Barret?

Cloud: Yeah.

Tifa: I should have known. He's always pushing people around, and you've always
been in fights ever since you were little. I was worried.

Tifa: Flowers? How nice…You almost never see them here in the slums. But… A
flower for me? Oh Cloud, you shouldn't have…

Cloud: No big.

Cloud decides to give the flower to Tifa.

Tifa: Thank you, Cloud. It smells wonderful. Maybe I should fill the store with
flowers.

Barret came in.

Marlene: Papa, welcome home!

Tifa: You all right, Barret?

Barret: Great!! (to his folks) Get in here, fools!! We're startin' the meetin'!!

As Cloud went down to an elevator with a pinball machine, he spoke to Barret.

Barret: Yo, Cloud! There's somethin' I wanna ask ya. Was there anyone from
SOLDIER fighting us today?

Cloud: None. I'm positive.

Barret: You sound pretty sure.

Cloud: If there was anyone from SOLDIER you wouldn't be standing here now.

Barret: Don't go thinkin' you so bad jes ‘cuz you was in SOLDIER.

Cloud: …………

Biggs kept on shaking Barret and Barret threw him.

Barret: Yeah, you're strong. Probably all them guys in SOLDIER are. But don't
forget that your skinny ass's workin' for AVALANCHE now! Don't get no ideas
'bout hangin' with Shinra.

Cloud: Stayin' with Shinra? You asked me a question and I answered it…that's
all. I'm going upstairs. I want to talk about my money.

Tifa came down from the elevator and appeared at the scene.

Tifa: Wait, Cloud!

Barret: Tifa! Let him go! Looks like he still misses the Shinra!

Cloud: (fed up) Shut up! I don't care about either Shinra or SOLDIER! But don't
get me wrong! I don't care about AVALANCHE or the Planet for that matter!

Barret got angry and begins aggressively punching the punching bag. Cloud went
up to the elevator to the main floor. Later, Tifa went up to where Cloud was
about to leave.

Tifa: Listen, Cloud. I'm asking you. Please join us.

Cloud: Sorry, Tifa…

Tifa: The Planet is dying. Slowly but surely it's dying. Someone has to do
something.

Cloud: So let Barret and his buddies do something about it. It's got nothin' to
do with me.

Tifa: (feeling rejected) So! You're really leaving!? You're just going to walk
right out ignoring your childhood friend!?

Cloud: What……? ……Sorry.

Tifa: ……You forgot the promise, too.

Cloud: Promise?

Tifa: So you DID forget. Remember…… Cloud. It was seven years ago…

In Cloud's memory…

Tifa: Look at the well. Do you remember?

Cloud: Yeah…back then. I thought you would never come, and I was getting a
little cold.

The camera shows Cloud and Tifa as kids playing in the playground.

Tifa: Sorry I'm late. You said you wanted to talk about something?

Cloud: Come this spring…I'm leaving this town for Midgar.

Tifa: …All boys are leaving our town.

Cloud: But I'm different from all of them. I'm not just going to find a job. I
want to join SOLDIER. I'm going to be the best there is, just like Sephiroth!

Tifa: Sephiroth… The Great Sephiroth. Isn't it hard to join SOLDIER?

Cloud: …I probably won't be able to come back to this town for a while.
(wondering where Tifa went) …huh?

Tifa: Will you be in the newspapers if you do well?

Cloud: I'll try.

Tifa: Hey, why don't we make a promise? Umm, if you get really famous and I'm
ever in a bind…… You came save me, all right?

Cloud: What?

Tifa: Whenever I'm in trouble, my hero will come and rescue me. I want to at
least experience that once.

Cloud: What?

Tifa: Come on--! Promise me----!

Cloud: All right…… I promise.

The memory ended.

Tifa: You remember now, don't you…our promise?

Cloud: (unsure) I'm not a hero and I'm not famous. I can't keep……the promise.

Tifa: But you got your childhood dream, didn't you? You joined SOLDIER. So come
on! You've got to keep your promise……

Barret climbed up and appeared at the scene.

Barret: Wait a sec big-time SOLDIER! A promise is a promise! Here!!

Barret paid Cloud 1500 gil.

Cloud: This is my pay? Don't make me laugh.

Tifa: What? Then you'll…!!

Cloud: (to Barret) You got the next mission lined up? I'll do it for 3000.

Barret: What……!?

Tifa: It's ok, it's ok. Psst, psst…… (We're really hurting for help, right?)

Barret: Uh……ugh…… (That money's for Marlene's schoolin'……) (to Cloud) 2000!

Tifa: Thanks, Cloud.

The next morning Cloud woke up and took the elevator to the main floor. While
he's there.

Barret: Our next target's the Sector 5 Reactor. Head for the station first.
I'll fill you in on the train. Yo! Cloud! Before the next mission, I got
somethin' I wanna ask you! I, uh, ……I don't really know how to use Materia!
I'll give you that Materia you found. Just teach me how to use it!

Cloud: …sigh…

Cloud told Barret everything about how to use Materias.

Barret: Shi……! What's this? It wasn't that tough! 'Crap! I'm clueless… Well,
you handle the Materia then!

Tifa: I'm going this time. Cloud! I got a message from the Weapons Shop man
upstairs. He has something he wants to give you. Don't forget! Marlene, you
watch the store while we're gone!

Marlene: All right!! Good Luck.

Cloud’s group heads to the train station and got on the train. Inside they meet
up with Jessie, Biggs, and Wedge. Barret’s anger scared almost all the
passenger to the other car.

Barret: YO! Looks like this ain't no private car!! So split up!!

Shinra Manager: ...hoodlums again. God, don't I just have all the luck…

The Shinra manager takes a seat.

Barret: (thought it was his folks) You say sumthin'? I said, 'you say
sumthin'!? Yo, look at that!! It got empty alluva sudden.

Shinra Manager: What's goin' on? DAMN! I…it's empty because of…g, guys like you…

Barret scares the Shinra manager.

Shinra Manager: Y, Y, YIPES!! You…you've seen the news, right? AVALANCHE says
there'll be more bombings. Only devoted employees like me would go to Midgar on
a day like today.

Barret: You workin' for Shinra?

Shinra Manager: I'm not give in to violence…and I'm not giving you my seat
either!

Tifa: Barret!!

Barret: #^*$!! You lucky #$#*!

Cloud: So, what are we gonna do now?

Barret: Shit! The hell you so calm about? You bustin' up my rhythm…

The train that Cloud’s group was in suddenly moved.

Tifa: Seems like they just finished connecting the cars. We're finally leaving.

Cloud: So what's our next target?

Barret: Hah! Listen to Mr. Serious-about-his-work! Awright… I'll tell ya!
Jessie's probably already told you, but there's a security checkpoint at the
top plate. It's an ID scan system checkin' all the trains.

Tifa: Which Shinra is very proud of.

Barret: We can't use our fake ID's anymore…

Conductor: Good Morning, and welcome to Midgar lines. Arrival time at Sector 4
Station will be 11:45.

Tifa: That means we've got only three more minutes to the ID checkpoint.

Barret: Alright, in three minutes, we're jumpin' off this train. Got it!?

Tifa: Cloud, come over here! Let's look at the Railway Map Monitor. Hmm, it
looks like you've seen this already… It's all right. Come a little closer.

Suddenly the emergency light flashes.

Tifa: That's odd. The ID CheckPoint was supposed to be further down.

Conductor: Type A Security Alert!! Unidentified passengers confirmed… A search
of all cars will be conducted! Repeat!! Type A Security Alert!! Unidentified
passengers confirmed… A search of all cars will be conducted!

Tifa: What's happening?

Barret: What's goin' on!!

Jessie appeared at the scene.

Jessie: We're in trouble, I'll explain later. Hurry! Get to the next car!

Barret: *$&%! Someone blew it…

Conductor: Unidentified passengers located in Car#1 preparing for Lock Down.

Barret: Let's go! Keep it up!

Cloud’s group quickly proceeds to Car#2.

Conductor: Car#1 locked down. Upgrading to Level 2 warning.

Biggs: Hurry!

Wedge: They're gonna lock the door, sir!

Jessie: Just run! Changing to Plan 2!

Conductor: Unidentified passengers located in Car#2 preparing for lock down.

Cloud’s group quickly proceeds to Car#3.

Conductor: Car#2 locked down. Upgrading to warning Level 3.

Barret: Awright! We clear!!

Jessie: Not yet. They're starting another check. If we're caught, we're done
for! But, don't worry. If we move up the train, car by car, we should get past
it!

Conductor: Unidentified Passengers: Moving to front of Train Currently tracking
location.

Cloud’s group quickly proceeds to Car#4.

Conductor: Car#4 locked down. Upgrading to Level 4 warning.

Cloud’s group finally hurried to the front car.

Conductor: Car#4 Locked Down Upgrading to maximum security alert!!

Barret: All right!! We made it! Yo!! This way!! Let's go!! We're gonna dive
outta here!!

Tifa: (to Cloud) …Scary…huh.

Cloud: Too late to be saying that now. Why'd you come along anyway?

Tifa: Because…

Barret: Hey you two! There ain't no time for that!

Tifa: Yeah!! I've made up my mind! Watch closely. I'll jump!!

Tifa jumped out of the train.

Cloud: (to Barret) You don't care if I go first?

Barret: A leader always stays till the end. Don't worry 'bout me, just go! Yo!
Don't go gettin' your spikey-ass hurt! It's only the beginnin' of the mission!
Later! You take care of the rest!

Cloud and Barret jumped off the train and met up with Tifa. After that…

Barret: Good so far everything's going as planned. Better not let your guard
down till we get to the Sector 5 reactor. Biggs, Wedge, and Jessie got
everything ready for us. So MOVE it. Well, the reactor's just down this tunnel!

After walking to the area with the light beams blocking their way…

Cloud: Those light beams are the Shinra security sensors. We can't go any
further.

Cloud saw a hole near the light beam.

Barret: That's one damn tiny hole. You tellin' me to squeeze into that to get
under the Plate? No, way! Yo, Cloud, what're we gonna do?

Cloud: Go down.

Barret: But, damn man, that thing gives me the chills.

They go down and they meet up where Jessie is and she told Cloud, Barret and
Tifa that it was her fault that she caused the situation. Cloud’s group
proceeds to the reactor's core. Cloud holds his head and after his body went
out of control, he collapsed. In Cloud's dream, he witnesses Tifa and her
father lying on the ground, dead.

Tifa: Papa… Sephiroth!? Sephiroth did this to you didn't he!? Sephiroth…
SOLDIER… Mako Reactors… Shinra… Everything! I hate them all!

The dream ended. Cloud suddenly woke up.

Barret: Damn man, get a hold of yourself!

Tifa: You all right?

Cloud: ……Tifa.

Tifa: Mmm?

Cloud: No…forget…… Come on, let's hurry!

Cloud sets the bomb and Cloud’s group quickly head outside of the reactor.

Barret: This way! Shinra soldiers!? SHIT! What the hell's goin' on?

Shinra soldiers surrounded Cloud’s group.

Cloud: …a trap…

Barret: Presi… President Shinra?

Tifa: Why is the President here?

President Shinra: Hmm… So you all must be that... ...what was it?

Barret: AVALANCHE! And don't ya forget it! And you're President Shinra, huh?

Cloud: Long time no see, President.

President Shinra: …Long time no see? Oh…you. You're the one who quit SOLDIER
and joined AVALANCHE. I knew you'd been exposed to Mako, from the look in your
eyes… Tell me, traitor, what was your name?

Cloud: Cloud.

President Shinra: Forgive me for asking, but I can't be expected to remember
each person's name. Unless you become another Sephiroth. Yes, Sephiroth… He was
brilliant. Perhaps too brilliant…

Cloud: Sephiroth……?

Barret: Don't give a damn 'bout none of that! This place's goin' up with a big
BANG soon! Serves y'all right!

President Shinra: And such a waste of good fireworks, just to get rid of vermin
like you…

Barret: VERMIN!? That's all you can say…VERMIN! Y'all Shinra're the VERMIN,
killing the planet! And that makes you King VERMIN! So shu'up jackass!

President Shinra: (bored) …You are beginning to bore me. I'm a very busy man,
so if you'll excuse me…I have a dinner I must attend.

Barret: Dinner!? Don't gimme that! I ain't even start wit' you yet!

President Shinra: But I've made arrangements for a playmate for you all.

A robot arrived at the scene.

Tifa: !? What's that noise?

Barret: The hell is this!?

President Shinra: Meet 'Airbuster', a techno-soldier. Our Weapon Development
Department created him. I'm sure the data he'll extract from your dead bodies
will be of great use to us in future experiments.

Cloud: Techno-soldier?

President Shinra: Now then, if you'll excuse me.

Cloud: Wait, President!

President Shinra got on the Shinra Helicopter and got away from the scene.

Barret: Yo, Cloud! We've gotta do somethin' 'bout him!

Tifa: Help, Cloud! THIS is from SOLDIER?

Cloud: No way! It's just a machine.

Barret: I don't care what it is!! I'm gonna bust him up!

Cloud’s group fights Air Buster. After Cloud’s group defeats Air Buster, Air
Buster blew up and some of the bridge got blown off. Cloud holds on the ledge
just before falling immediately off the reactor.

Barret: It's gonna blow! Let's go, Tifa!

Tifa: Barret! Can't you do something?

Barret: Not a damn thing.

Tifa: Cloud! Please don't die! You can't die! There's still so much I want to
tell you!

Cloud: I know, Tifa……

Barret: Hey, you gonna be awright?

Cloud: I don't know if I can hold on. Shit! Can't hold on much longer. Barret
……Hurry!

Barret: Don't go cryin' like a woman. There ain't nothin' I can do for ya. Ya
gotta do it yourself.

Cloud: Barret…

Barret: Alright, then, later.

We watch a movie of the reactor blowing up and Cloud fell off the bridge that
he was holding on to. Later in Cloud's dream…

Mysterious Voice: ……You all right? ……Can you hear me?

Cloud: ……Yeah……

Mysterious Voice: Back then…… You could get by with just skinned knees……

Cloud: ……What do you mean by 'back then'?

Mysterious Voice: What about now? Can you get up?

Cloud: ……What do you mean by 'back time'? ……What about now?

Mysterious Voice: ……Don't worry about me. You just worry about yourself now.

Cloud: ……I'll give it a try.

Female Voice: Oh! It moved!

Mysterious Voice: ……How about that? Take it slow now. Little by little……

Female Voice: Hello, hello?

Cloud: Hey… who are you?

Female Voice: Hello, hello!

Cloud woke up at the scene in a church with the flower girl.

Flower Girl: you okay? This is a church in the Sector 5 slums. It suddenly fell
on top of me. It really gave me a scare.

Cloud: ……I came crashing down?

Flower Girl: The roof and the flower bed must have broken your fall. You're
lucky.

Cloud: Flower bed……is this yours? Sorry about that.

Flower Girl: That's all right. The flowers here are quite resilient because
this is a sacred place. They say you can't grow grass and flowers in Midgar.
But for some reason, the flowers have no trouble blooming here. I love it here.

The flower girl goes back to nursing the flowers. Cloud approaches the flower
girl and talks to her.

Flower Girl: ……So, we meet again. ……Don't you remember me? You do?

Cloud: Yeah, I remember… You were selling flowers.

Flower Girl: Oh! I'm so happy! Thanks for buying my flowers.  Say, do you have
any Materia?

Cloud showed her some of his materias.

Cloud: Yes, some. Nowadays you can find materia anywhere.

Flower Girl: But mine is special. It's good for absolutely nothing.

Cloud: ……good for nothing? You probably just don't know how to use it.

Flower Girl: No, I do……it just doesn't do anything. I feel safe having it. It
was my mother's…… Say, I feel like talking. Do you feel up to it? After all,
here we are meeting again, right?

Cloud: I don't mind.

Flower Girl: Wait here. I've got to check my flowers. It'll just be a minute.

Cloud spoke to the flower girl again.

Flower Girl: Just a little longer. Oh! Now that you mention it…… We don't know
each other's names, do we? My name is…… I'm Aerith, the flower girl. Nice to
meet you.

Cloud: The name's Cloud. Me? I do a little bit of everything.

Aerith: Oh……a jack of all trades.

Cloud: Yeah, I do whatever's needed. What's so funny? What are you laughing at?

Aerith: Sorry…… I just…

Cloud and the flower girl who will be known as Aerith from this point on saw
the Turks.

Aerith: Say, Cloud. Have you ever been a bodyguard? You DO do everything, right?

Cloud: ……Yeah, that's right.

Aerith: Then, get me out of here. Take me home.

Cloud: OK, I'll do it…but it'll cost you.

Aerith: Well then, let's see…… How about if I go out with you once?

Cloud then talks to the Turk member.

Cloud: I don't know who you are, but…… You don't know me……?

The camera suddenly shows a quick bright flash.

Mysterious Voice: ……I know you.

Cloud: Oh yeah……I know you. That uniform……

Shinra Soldier: ……Hey sis, this one's a little weird.

Cloud: Shut up! You Shinra spy!

Shinra Soldier: Reno! Want him taken out?

Reno: I haven't decided yet.

Aerith: Don't fight here! You'll ruin the flowers! The exit is back there.

Cloud and Aerith moves on to the next area. The camera switches back to Reno
and the Turks.

Reno: They were……Mako eyes. Yeah, all right. (To the Shinra soldiers) Back to
work, back to work.

Just as Reno was about to take off from the scene.

Reno: Oh! And don't step on the flowers……

Shinra Soldier 1: Hey Reno, you just stepped on them!

Shinra Soldier 2: They're all ruined!

Shinra Soldier 3: You're gonna catch holy hell!

Cloud and Aerith proceed to the upper level of the church. Then…

Reno: There they are, over there!

Aerith: Cloud…that one!

Cloud: I know. Looks like they aren't going to let us go.

Aerith: What should we do?

Cloud: Well we can't let them catch us, can we? Then there's only one thing
left.

Cloud jumped to the next platform.

Cloud: Aerith! This way! All right I'll hold them off.

Aerith: Right. Make sure they don't get through!

Reno: The Ancient is getting away! Attack! Attack! Attack!

The Shinra soldiers fire their rifles at Aerith’s area range and she falls.

Aerith: Eaygh!!

Aerith fell to the basement.

Cloud: Aerith!

Reno: Think we killed'em? They shouldn't have put up a fight, I say!

Aerith: Cloud, help!

Cloud: Damn! (he looks at the barrels) What's that…?

Cloud knocked one barrel at the first Shinra soldier, knocking him out.

Aerith: Thanks, Cloud. (another soldier blocked her way) Eaygh!! Cloud, help!

Cloud knocked another barrel at the second Shinra soldier, knocking him out.

Aerith: Thanks, Cloud. (another soldier blocked her way) Eaygh!! Cloud, help!

Cloud knocked another barrel at the third Shinra soldier, knocking him out.

Aerith: Thanks, Cloud.

Aerith finally met up with Cloud.

Cloud: Aerith, this way.

Cloud and Aerith arrived at the roof of the church.

Aerith: Ha, ha…… They're looking for me again.

Cloud: You mean it's not the first time they've been after you?

Aerith: …no.

Cloud: They're the Turks.

Aerith: Hmmm……

Cloud: The Turks are an organization in Shinra. They scout for possible
candidates for SOLDIER.

Aerith: This violently? I thought they were kidnapping someone.

Cloud: They're also involved in a lot of dirty stuff on the side. Spying,
murder…you know.

Aerith: They look like it.

Cloud: But, why're they after you? There must be a reason, right?

Aerith: No, not really. I think they believe I have what it takes to be in
SOLDIER!

Cloud: Maybe you do. You want to join?

Aerith: I don't know… But I don't want to get caught by THOSE people!

Cloud: Then let's go!

Cloud jumps roof to roof. Aerith tries to catch up to Cloud.

Aerith: Wait… Wait, I said! Puff…wheeze… Slow……down… Don't leave me……

Cloud: Funny…… I thought you were cut out to be in SOLDIER?

Aerith: Oh! You're terrible! Hey……Cloud. Were you…ever in SOLDIER?

Cloud: …… …I used to be. How did you guess?

Aerith: …Your eyes. They have a strange glow…

Cloud: That's the sign of those who have been infused with Mako… A mark of
SOLDIER. But, how did you know about that?

Aerith: ……Oh, nothing.

Cloud: Nothing…?

Aerith: Right, nothing! Come on, let's go! Bodyguard!

Cloud and Aerith manages to arrive at the streets. In the streets…

Aerith: Whew! Finally made it off! Now what… My house is over here. Hurry
before he comes.

Cloud and Aerith proceeds to Aerith's house. In Aerith’s house…

Aerith: I'm, home mom. This is Cloud. My bodyguard.

Elmyra: Bodyguard……? You mean you were followed again!? Are you all right!?
You're not hurt, are you!?

Aerith: I'm all right. I had Cloud with me.

Elmyra: Thank you, Cloud.

Aerith: So what are you going to do now?

Cloud: …Is Sector 7 far from here? I want to go to Tifa's bar.

Aerith: Is Tifa……a girl?

Cloud: Yeah.

Aerith: A girl…friend?

Cloud: Girlfriend? Yeah, that's right.

Aerith: Oh, how nice. Well, that's nice. Let's see, Sector 7? I'll show you the
way.

Cloud: You gotta be kidding. Why do you want to put yourself in danger again?

Aerith: I'm used to it.

Cloud: Used to it!? ……Well, don't know…getting help from a girl…

Aerith: A girl!! What do you mean by that!? You expect me to just sit by and
listen, after hearing you say something like that!? (to Elmyra) Mom! I'm taking
Cloud to Sector 7. I'll be back in a while.

Elmyra: But dear…I give up. You never listen once you've made up your mind. But
if you must go, why don't you go tomorrow? It's getting late now.

Aerith: Yeah, you're right, mom.

Elmyra: Aerith, please go and make the bed.

Cloud goes upstairs. Aerith then appeared at the scene.

Aerith: You need to go through Sector 6 to get to Sector 7. Sector 6 is a
little dangerous so you'd better get some rest tonight. Cloud… Good night.

Aerith left.

Cloud: Oh, man…

Cloud goes to sleep. In his dreams…

Mysterious Voice: …seem pretty tired……

Cloud: ………!?

Mysterious Voice: I haven't slept in a bed like this…in a long time.

Cloud: …Oh, yeah.

Mysterious Voice: Ever since that time.

In Cloud's dream at his home…

Cloud's Mom: My, how you're grown. I'll bet the girls never leave you alone.

Cloud: …Not really.

Cloud's Mom: …I'm worried about you. There are a lot of temptations in the
city…I'd feel a lot better if you just settled down and had a nice girlfriend.

Cloud: …I'm all right.

Cloud's Mom: You should have…an older girlfriend, one that'll take care of you.
I think that would be the perfect type for you.

Cloud: ……I'm not interested.

The dream ended and Cloud woke up at the scene.

Cloud: … I must've fallen asleep. Sector 7's past Sector 6… I should be all
right by myself…

Cloud sneaks quietly down the stairs and out to the Sector 6 streets. On his
way, Cloud unexpectedly saw Aerith at the scene.

Aerith: You're up bright and early.

Cloud: How could I ask you to go along when I knew it would be dangerous?

Aerith: Are you done? You have to go through the slums in Sector 6 to get to
Tifa's 7th Heaven. I'll take you there. Come on!

Cloud and Aerith proceed to the playground. In there…

Aerith: The gate to Sector 7's in there.

Cloud: Thanks. I guess this is goodbye. You gonna be all right going home?

Aerith: Oh no! What ever will I do!? …isn't that what you want me to say? Take
me to Sector 7? I could do that. But won't I be in your way?

Cloud: What do you mean in the way?

Aerith: Nothing! Can we take a break? I can't believe it's still here. Cloud,
over here!

Cloud and Aerith sat on the slide.

Aerith: What rank were you?

Cloud: Rank?

Aerith: You know, in SOLDIER.

Cloud: Oh, I was…

Suddenly, a flash appeared on the camera.

Cloud: First Class.

Aerith: Just the same as him.

Cloud: The same as who?

Aerith: My first boyfriend.

Cloud: You were…serious?

Aerith: No. But I liked him for a while.

Cloud: I probably knew him. What was his name?

Aerith: It doesn't really matter.

A gate opened with a cart and Tifa is on the cart.

Cloud: Huh? Hey, back there……Tifa!?

Aerith: That girl in the cart was Tifa? Where was she going? She looked kind of
odd…

Aerith ran off to the Wall Market.

Cloud: Wait! I'll go on alone!! You go on home!!

Cloud ran and arrived at the Wall Market. In the Wall Market, Cloud met up with
Aerith.

Aerith: This place is scary in a lot of ways. Especially for a girl. So we've
got to find Tifa fast.

Cloud and Aeris proceed at the Honey Bee Inn. Upon arriving, Cloud spoke to the
man and got information where Tifa is. Then, Cloud and Aerith proceeds to the
mansion. Cloud and Aerith talks to the man.

Man: This is Don Corneo's mansion. He's a big shot here in Wall Market. Listen,
the Don's not interested in men. So just get the hell outta here. Hey, any you
got another cute one with you!

Aerith: (to Cloud) Hey, this looks like the Don's mansion. I'll go take a look.
I'll tell Tifa about you.

Cloud: No!! You can't!!

Aerith: Why?

Cloud: You DO know…what kind of…place this is, don't you?

Aerith: Then what as I supposed to do? You want to go in with me?

Cloud: Well being a man, that'll be pretty hard. Besides if I bust in there,
it'll cause too much commotion. But, I just can't let you go in alone… Oh,
man…… First…we need to find out if Tifa's alright… What's so funny Aerith?

Aerith: Cloud, why don't you dress up like a girl? It's the only way.

Cloud: WHAT!?

Aerith: (to the man) Just wait. I've got a cute friend I want to bring.

Cloud: Aerith! I can't……

Aerith: You are worried about Tifa, aren't you? Then come on, hurry!

Cloud and Aerith proceeds to the clothing store. Inside…

Aerith: Excuse me! I'd like to get a dress.

Girl: Umm, it might take a little time. Will that be all right?

Aerith: What's the problem?

Girl: Well, my father, the owner, has been in a slump lately. You see, he makes
all the dresses.

Aerith: And, where is your father?

Girl: He's probably plastered at the bar.

Aerith: So… You're saying we can't get a dress unless we do something about
your father?

Girl: Yes, I'm sorry. He's caused so much trouble. You'd help be bring him back?

Aerith: Well, if we do something, we don't get a dress, right?

Girl: Really!? Please help my crazy old dad. I just don't know what to do
anymore…

Aerith: All right, we'll do something. Let's go, Cloud!

Cloud and Aerith proceed to the restaurant. Inside the restaurant, Aerith talks
to the clothes store owner.

Aerith: (to the owner) Excuse us, are you the father of the girl at the
Clothing Store?

Owner: I own the Clothes shop…but I ain't your father.

Cloud: Make me some clothes.

Owner: I don't make men's clothes. And I don't feel like makin' anything right
now.

Aerith: Cloud, you wait over there for a second. I'll try and talk to him. Why
don't you go over there and have something to drink.

Cloud steps away from Aerith and the owner.

Aerith: You know, Mister. He always said that just once, he'd like to dress up
like a girl. So, that's why I wanted a cute dress for him…

Owner: What!? A tough lookin' guy like that?

Aerith: So, how 'bout it? Will you make him one?

Owner: …might be interesting. I was gettin' a little bored just makin' regular
clothes.

Aerith: Then you'll do it for us?

Owner: Yeah, all right. What king of dress you want?

Aerith: Something… That feels soft. And something…that shimmers.

Owner: Hmm, got it. Y'know I got a friend that has the same taste as him. I'll
go talk to him.

Cloud helped a woman in a restroom by giving her a Digestive medicine, and she
thanked Cloud and gave him the Sexy Cologne. Then, the man who is holding his
privates for some time immediately went to the restroom. Cloud and Aerith
proceed to the clothing store. In the clothing store…

Owner: Oh, you're here. It's ready. Go try it on.

Cloud got a Silk Dress. Cloud goes to the dressing room and tries it on.

Cloud: How……do you put this on? Whoa! What are you doing!

Aerith: (peeking at Cloud) It's still not right. A wig! That's what you need!

Owner: Umm, I thought you might, so I talked to my friend about getting one.
You know the gym? You'll find a lot of people there like you. Go and talk to
them.

Cloud: …'liked you'? Aerith, what did you tell him?

Aerith: Does it matter? Anyhow, we got a pretty dress!

Cloud and Aerith proceeds to the gym. Inside, Cloud and Aerith talk to Big Bro.

Big Bro: You the one…… Who wants to be cute?

Cloud: Cute?

Aerith: Right. And about the wig…

Big Bro: Yeah, I heard. But it'll cost ya.

The muscular guy came over.

Muscular Guy 1: Urrrrgh!!! Big Bro!! The only way you're gonna get cuter is if
you can beat Big Bro!!

Muscular Guy 2: That's right!

Muscular Guy 3: So, you've got to compete with us!

Big Bro: You're right. Let's do squats.

Muscular Guy 2: All right! We'll beat you out of this gym!

Cloud: Are you...?

Aerith: The beautiful Bro?

Big Bro: What? You didn't know? Always running around here sayin' Big Bro'
this, Big Bro' that… (to muscular guy 1) Never mind that, come over here. No,
I'll explain the rules.

Got it?

Cloud: Got it.

Big Bro: Whoever has the most squats after 30 seconds gets the wig.

Muscular Guy 1: I'm not going to lose. Big Bro's wig is MINE!!

Big Bro: Just be quiet... It's not fair for you to start right away. (to Cloud)
So, you want some practice?

Cloud: Don't need to practice.

Big Bro: Not let's begin the real thing. Start!

Cloud and the muscular guy begin the squatting competition. After Cloud manages
to get the most squats…

Big Bro: You're really something. Okay, I'm a man of my word, here you are.

Cloud got a Blonde Wig.

Muscular Guy 1: Big Bro, I'm so mad, I'm so so so---mad!

Big Bro punched the muscular guy 1 towards the wall.

Big Bro: Shut up! Don't cry, just because you lost!

Muscular Guy 2: Uuuuhh, Bro's fists of steel cut to the bone!

Cloud moved on to the Materia shop and talked to a Materia seller and the
Materia seller told him that he has to get something from the inn for him, but
he got kicked out of the inn for fighting and he cannot return again. Cloud
rests at an inn and got something that the Materia seller wants from the
vending machine. The next morning, he gave the item to the Materia seller and
the Materia seller gave him a Diamond Tiara. Cloud then receives a Member's
Card when he spoke to a man who's walking outside of Wall Market. Cloud and
Aerith proceed to the Honey Bee Inn.

Cloud: …Hmm. That's how you'll fool them.

Aerith: ………Hmmmmmmm. So that's how you fooled them.

Cloud: Let's go!!

Cloud by himself goes into the Honey Bee Inn. Inside…

Woman: Poo, I uh, mean, Sir… Hurry…

Cloud decided to go into the Group Room.

Cloud: I'll take this room.

Woman: All right. Now all we have to do is enter the room. You're not going to
have a change of heart, are you?

Cloud: Don't make me repeat myself.

Woman: Oh, don't be angry with me… (Geez…this one's probably the violent type…)
All right, please.

Inside the room…

Woman: This way, please. Shall we begin? I guess since you chose this room,
that would mean you… Hate being lonely?

Cloud: Cut the small talk. I don't want to talk right now.

Woman: All right, all right. (...geez, you're so moody!) Come on, everyone.

Homosexual Muscular Guys: One, two!! One, two!! One, two!! One, two!! One,
two!! One, two!! One, two!! One, two!! One, two!! One, two!! One, two!! One,
two!! Yeah!!

Cloud jumped back after being startled from the hoxosexual muscular guys
running in at the scene.

Mukki: Wassup!! (Smile, smile, smile…)

Cloud: Oh, man… What should I do…? I'm outta here. I've got no time to mess
around with you. Outta my way!

Mukki: …heave…pant… Don't be so embarrassed! Loosen up, bubby! …heave…pant…
Let's wash off all our sweat and dirt together!

Homosexual Muscular Guys: Wassup!!

Mukki and the homosexual muscular guys took Cloud's clothing off.

Mukki: Bubby! You're the intimate type, huh!! …heave…pant… Wow!! Would you look
at that!

Cloud and the homosexual muscular guys enter the tub.

Mukki: Isn't bathing great…? It soothes your heart. How is it, bubby!? Feels
good, huh?

Cloud: ……… I don't feel good. Let me out…

Mukki: You'll get used to it. Try counting to ten.

Cloud: Ten… Nine…

Mukki: Hey bubby, how old are you?

Cloud: Eight… Twenty one…

Mukki: You're less then half my age. I'm so jealous. So how 'bout it...? Do you
wanna join my "Young bubby's" group?

Cloud: ………… Seven... Six... Not to be rude or anything, but could you go do
someone else?

Mukki: Well, if that's how you feel…too bad. We have a trip planned at a cabin
out in the country.

Cloud: Five… Four… Three… Two… One… Alright, that's ten. I'm gettin' out.

Mukki: Why don't you stick around and play a bit? Daddy's so lonely…

Cloud and the homosexual muscluar guys got out of the tub and Cloud puts on his
clothing on.

Mukki: Bubby!! This is important to me! Here's a memento of our time together!

Cloud got Bikini Briefs.

Mukki: Hope we meet again!

The homosexual muscular guys ran away from the scene.

Cloud: This is SOME underwear… I'm supposed to wear this…? Well, if it's to
save Tifa…I guess there's no way around.

Cloud went to the make-up room and asks one of the women to put make-up on him.
Then Cloud got out of the Honey Bee Inn.

Aerith: Hey!! Cloud!!

Cloud and Aerith proceed to the clothing shop.

Aerith: Aren't you going to change?

Cloud: Okay…I'm ready.

Cloud goes to the dressing room and dresses up like a girl. Cloud came out.

Owner: Hmm, not bad. This may be a new business for me.

Girl: Yeah, you're right. Should we try it? Thanks for showing us something
new. My father's got his motivation back now. So the dress in the house.

Aerith: Walk more nicely like…this. Miss Cloud.

Cloud: (embarrassed) …What do you mean 'nicely'?

Cloud walks and stands with his hands together.

Aerith: Oh you're so cute, Miss Cloud. (to the owner) Aaah, I want one. Do you
have one that'll look good on me too?

Girl: How's this?

Owner: How about that one?

Girl: Father, what are you talking about? This one's much better.

Owner: No, what are you saying? This one.

Aerith: (chose the clothing she wanted to try) …I want this one.

Owner: Huh?

Girl: Huh?

Aerith: I'm going to go change. ……No peeking!

Aerith dresses up. After that, she got out of the dressing room with her dress
outfit.

Aerith: So? How do I look?

Cloud doesn't respond.

Aerith: Oh, you're no fun!

Cloud and Aerith both in dresses proceed to the Don's mansion. Outside…

Man: Damn! Your friend's hot, too! Come in, come in!! (to the second man) Two
ladies coming through!!

Inside…

Man 2: Hey, ladies. I'll go and let the Don know you're here. Wait here. Don't
go wandering around…

Aerith: (to Cloud) Now's our chance. Let's find Tifa.

Cloud and Aerith proceed to the basement where they met Tifa who is also
dressed up.

Aerith: Tifa? Nice to meet you. I'm Aerith. Cloud's told me a lot about you.

Tifa: …And you are? Hey you're the one with Cloud in the park…

Aerith: Right, with Cloud.

Tifa: Oh……

Aerith: Don't worry. We just met. It's nothing.

Tifa: What do you mean, 'Don't worry'…about what? No, don't misunderstand.
Cloud and I grew up together. Nothing more.

Aerith: Poor Cloud having to stand here and listen to both of us call him
nothing. Right, Cloud?

Tifa: Cloud?

Tifa takes a closer look at Cloud.

Tifa: ???? Cloud!? Why are you dressed like that!? And what are you doing
here!? Forget that, what happened to you after the fall!? Are you hurt!?

Cloud: Hey, give me a chance to answer. I'm dressed like this……because there
was no other way to get in here. I'm all right. Aerith helped me out.

Tifa: Oh, Aerith did…

Cloud: Tifa, explain. What are you doing in a place like this?

Tifa: Yeah, ummm……

Aerith: Ahem!! I'll just plug my ears.

Tifa talks to Cloud in private.

Tifa: I'm glad you're OK.

Cloud: Thanks. What happened?

Tifa: When we got back from the Number 5 reactor, there was this weird man. So
Barret caught him and squeezed some information out of him.

Cloud: That's when the Don's name popped up.

Tifa: Right, Don Corneo. Barret told me to leave the lech alone... But
something's been bothering me.

Cloud: I see. So you wanted to get the story straight from Corneo's mouth.

Tifa: So I made it here, but now I'm in a bind. Corneo is looking for a bride.
Everyday, he gets three girls, chooses one of them, and then… …and, well…
Anyway, I have to be the girl…or I'm out for tonight.

Aerith: Sorry…but I overheard…if you know the three girls, there's no problem,
right?

Cloud: No, Aerith! I can't have you get involved.

Aerith: Oh? So it's all right for Tifa to be in danger?

Cloud: No, I don't want Tifa in…

Tifa: Is it all right?

Aerith: I grew up in the slums… I'm used to danger. Do you trust me?

Tifa: Yes. Thanks, Ms. Aerith.

Aerith: Call me Aerith.

Man 2: He---y!! It's time, ladies. The Don is waiting! I told you not to wander
around… I tell ya, women nowadays… Hurry up, will ya!

Cloud: I probably don't need to ask but the other girl is…… Me……right?

Tifa: You're right, there was no need…

Aerith: …to ask.

Cloud’s group proeed to the Don's room. In the Don’s room…

Kotch: All right ladies! Line up in front of the Don!

Cloud’s group takes their position.

Corneo: Hmmm! Good, splendid! Now, let's see…which girl should I choose? Hmm--
hmm---! This one? Or this one?

Corneo looks at Cloud, but Cloud turns his face away from Corneo.

Corneo: Woo--hoo, I've made up my mind!! My choice for tonight is……

Corneo chose Cloud.

Corneo: This healthy looking girl!

Cloud: Wa, wait a sec! I mean, uh, please wait a moment!

Corneo: Woo-hoo! I love chickies who play hard-to-get! Yeowza! (to the second
man) You can have the other ones!

Man 2: Yes, sir! Thank you sir!

The second man took Aerith and Tifa to the other room.

Corneo: (to Cloud) Well then, shall we go my pretty!?

Later, Cloud and Corneo arrived in Corneo’s room.

Corneo: (sexually excited) Ahh, we're finally alone… All right, pussycat… Come
to daddy!! You're so cute, I never get tired of looking at you. Do you…like me,
too?

Cloud: Ummm……

Corneo: You don't like me? There…there isn't someone else, is there?

Cloud: Yes, his name's Barret…

Corneo: No way! Hmm? Barret? That sounds familiar…

Cloud: You know, he's one of the ones you were trying to find out about. You
know, AVALANCHE…?

Corneo: Oh, yeah, yeah. In Sector 7 in the slum… …and how do YOU know that!?

Cloud steps back and takes off his dress and revealed his normal self.

Corneo: A man!? You tricked me!! Somebody get in here NOW!!

Voice of Tifa: Unfortunately, no one'll be comin' to help.

Tifa and Aerith with their normal appearances appeared at the scene.

Corneo: You're the ones from before! Wh…what the hell's going on?

Tifa: Shut up, we're asking the questions now… What did your assistants find
out? Talk! If you don't tell us…

Cloud: (left leg on Corneo’s bed) …I'll chop them off.

Corneo: No! Not that! I'll talk! I'll tell you everything!

Tifa: So…talk.

Corneo: … I made 'em find out where the man with the gun-arm was. But that's
what I was ordered to do.

Tifa: By who?

Corneo: No--! If I told you that, I'd be killed!

Tifa: Talk! If you don't tell us…

Aerith: (left leg on Corneo’s bed) …I'll rip them off.

Corneo: Waaaaaaaaaaah--! It was Heidegger of Shinra! Heidegger, the head of
Public Safety Maintenance!

Cloud: The head of Public Safety Maintenance!?

Tifa: Did you say the Shinra!? What are they up to!? Talk! If you don't tell
us… (left leg on Corneo’s bed) I'll smash them.

Corneo: …You're serious, aren't you… …ohboy, ohboy, ohboy. …I'm not fooling
around here either, you know. Shinra's trying to crush a small rebel group
called AVALANCHE, and want to infiltrate their hideout. And they're really
going to crush them…literally, by breaking the support holding up the plate
above them.

Tifa: Break the support!?

Corneo: You know what's going to happen? The plate'll go PING and everything's
gonna go BAMMM!! I heard their hideout's in the Sector 7 Slums... I'm just glad
it's not here in Sector 6.

Tifa: They're going to wipe out the Sector 7 Slums!? Cloud, will you come with
me to Sector 7?

Cloud: Of course, Tifa.

Corneo: Just a second!

Cloud: Shut up!

Corneo: No wait, it'll only take a second. How do you think scum like me feels
when they babble on about the truth?

Cloud: They're sure they'll win?

Corneo: Woo-hoo! Right!

Corneo pulled the switch and Cloud’s group fall into the pit of the mansion.
Meanwhile at the Shinra Headquarters…

President Shinra: How are the preparations going?

Heidegger: Ha, ha, ha! Smoothly, very smoothly! I assigned the Turks to this.

Reeve: President!! Are we really going to do this? Simply destroy a group with
only a few members…

President Shinra: What's the problem, Reeve? You want out?

Reeve: …No. But, as head of the Urban Development Department, I have been
involved in the building and running of Midgar. That's why…

Heidegger: Reeve, you should flush there personal problems in the morning!

Reeve: The Mayor's against this anyway…

Heidegger: Mayor? He just sits in this building all day feeding his face! You
still call that a Mayor? Now if you'll excuse me sir!

Heidegger left. Reeve tried to follow Heidegger, but he stopped.

President Shinra: (to Reeve) You're tired. Why don't you take a couple of days
off and go somewhere. (to himself) We'll destroy Sector 7 and report that
AVALANCHE did it. Then we'll send in the rescue operation care of Shinra, Inc.
...Heh, heh, heh... This is perfect.

Meanwhile in the sewers, Cloud’s group woke up after the fall.

Cloud: You alright?

Tifa: Man! This is terrible.

Cloud: (to Aerith) You alright?

Aerith: Yeah. Well, the worst is over… (heard a strange noise) Maybe not...

Cloud's group fights Aps. After Cloud's group defeats Aps…

Tifa: It's too late…… Marlene…Barret…the people of the Slums.

Aerith: Don't give up, never give up hope. It's not easy to destroy the pillar,
right?

Tifa: ……… Yeah……you're right! We still have time.

They head out of the sewers and into the Train Graveyard.

Cloud: Aerith. I got you mixed up in all of this...

Aerith: Don't tell me to go home.

Tifa: Let's see… If we can get past the trains that are lit up, we should be
able to get out of here.

Cloud’s group manages to go through the Train Graveyard and then through the
Pillar Station. In Pillar Station, gunfires can be heard.

Tifa: We made it! The pillar's standing!

Cloud: Wait! You hear something……above us?

Aerith: ……gun fire?

Suddenly Wedge got shot and fell from the extremely tall pillar. Cloud’s group
checks on Wedge.

Cloud: Wedge!! You all right!?

Wedge: ……Cloud…… You remembered……my name. Barret's up top. …help him…… An'
Cloud… Sorry, I wasn't any help.

Wedge died at the scene.

Cloud: I'm going up! Aerith! You look after Wedge.

Tifa: Aerith, do me a favor. I have a bar called '7th Heaven' in this
neighborhood. There's a little girl named Marlene there……

Aerith: Don't worry. I'll put her somewhere safe.

Tifa: It's dangerous here! Everyone get away from the pillar, quickly! Everyone
get out of Sector 7!

Cloud and Tifa go up and talks to Biggs who is lying helplessly on a rail.

Biggs: Cloud…so you don't care…what happens…to the…Planet?

Cloud: Nope, not interested.

Biggs: Hmph…you haven't changed. Oh, forget it.

Cloud and Tifa continues going up and then they talk to Jessie who is badly
injured.

Jessie: …Cloud… I'm glad…… I could talk with you…one last time.

Cloud: Is that so…

Jessie: …Is…that so……? Ha……cool……as usual…ex-…SOLDIER. …always…I liked that…in
you…

Cloud and Tifa met up with Barret as he opens fire at the Shinra Helicopter.

Barret: Tifa! Cloud! You came! Be careful! They're attacking from the
helicopter.

Tifa: Better equip ourselves before they attack in full force!

Cloud’s group checks their equipment. After that…

Tifa: Here they come!

Reno appeared at the scene.

Reno: You're too late. Once I push this button…

Reno pressed the button on the computer console.

Reno: That's all, folks! Mission accomplished.

Tifa: We have to disarm it! Cloud! Barret! Please!

Reno: I can't have you do that. No one gets in the way of Reno and the Turks…

Cloud's group fights Reno. After Cloud’s group defeats Reno…

Reno: It's time.

Reno escaped. As Tifa attempts to disarm the controls, Cloud talks to her.

Tifa: Cloud! I don't know how to stop this. Try it!

Cloud: …It's not a normal time bomb.

Suddenly, the Shinra Helicopter came up to the level of where Cloud's group was.

Tseng: That's right. You'll have the hard time disarming that one. It'll blow
the second some stupid jerk touches it.

Tifa: Please, stop it!

Tseng: Ha ha ha… …Only a Shinra Executive can set up or disarm the Emergency
Plate Release System.

Barret: Shut yer hole!

Barret opens fire at Tseng’s helicopter.

Tseng: I wouldn't try that…… You just might make me injure our special guest.

Tifa: Aerith!!

Tseng: Oh, you know each other? How nice you could see each other one last
time. You should thank me.

Cloud: What are you gonna do with Aerith!?

Tseng: I haven't decided. Our orders were to find and catch the last remaining
Ancient. It's taken us a long time, but now I can finally report this to the
President.

Aerith: Tifa, don't worry! She's all right!

Tseng slapped Aerith.

Tifa: Aerith!

Aerith: Hurry and get out!

Tseng: Ha, ha, ha…well, it should be starting right about now. Think you can
escape in time?

We watch a movie of the helicopter flying away and the stand support partially
blew up.

Barret: Yo, we can use this wire to get out!

Cloud’s group took the wire and moving to safety. We watch a movie of Cloud’s
group escaping with the cable as the Sector 7’s stand support got destroyed and
the plate crushes everyone and everything in Sector 7. The President watches
while listening to his favorite classical music. Later, Cloud’s group arrived
at safety.

Barret: Marlene! MARLENE!! MAR---LE---NE!! Biggs! Wedge!! Jessie!! (angry)
Dammit! Godammit!! DAMMIT ALL TO HELL!!!! What the hell's it all for!?
ARGHHHH!!!

Cloud: Hey, Barret!

Tifa: Barret!

Barret: ARGHHHHH!!!

Cloud: Hey!

Tifa: Barret, stop… Please stop, Barret.

Barret: URGHHH!!!

Barret open fires at the debris, but nothing happened.

Barret: God damn… Marlene…

A little later…

Tifa: ……… Barret……? Marlene is… I think Marlene is safe.

Barret: ……huh?

Tifa: Right before they took Aerith, she said, "Don't worry, she's all right."
She was probably talking about Marlene.

Barret: R, really!?

Tifa: But…

Barret: Biggs…… Wedge… Jessie……

Cloud: All three of them were in the pillar.

Barret: Think I don't know that? But ...we, all of us fought together. I don't
wanna think of them as dead!

Tifa: …and the other people in Sector 7.

Barret: This is all screwed up! They destroyed an entire village just to get to
us! They killed so many people…

Tifa: …are you saying it's our fault? Because AVALANCHE was here? Innocent
people lost their lives because of us?

Barret: No, Tifa! That ain't it! Hell no!! It ain't us! It's the damn Shinra!
It's never been nobody but the Shinra! They're evil and destroyin' our planet
just to... build their power and line their own damn pockets with gold! If we
don't get rid of them, they're gonna kill this planet! Our fight ain't never
gonna be over until we get rid of them!!

Tifa: ………I don't know.

Barret: What don't you know? You don't believe me?

Tifa: It's not that. I'm not sure about…me. My feelings.

Barret: An' what about you?

Cloud: ………

Without a word, Cloud walked away from the scene.

Barret: Yo! Where's he think he's goin'?

Tifa: Oh! Aerith!

Barret: Oh yeah, that girl. What's up with her?

Tifa: …I don't really know… But she's the one I left Marlene with.

Barret: Damn! Marlene!! Tifa. There ain't no turnin' back now.

Cloud walks alone. Then, Barret and Tifa arrived.

Barret: Cloud! Take me to Marlene!

Tifa: You're going to help Aerith?

Cloud: Yeah… But before that, there's something I want to know.

Tifa: What's that?

Cloud: …it's about the Ancients.

In Cloud's memory…

Cloud: In my veins courses the blood of the Ancients. I am one of the rightful
heirs to this planet! Sephiroth…?

Cloud kneels to the ground.

Tifa: Are you all right?

Barret: Pull it together, man!

Cloud's group proceeds to Aerith's house.

Elmyra: Cloud……wasn't it? It's about Aerith, isn't it?

Cloud: Sorry. The Shinra have her.

Elmyra: I know. They took her from here.

Cloud: They were here?

Elmyra: That's what Aerith wanted.

Cloud: Why is Shinra after Aerith?

Elmyra: Aerith is an Ancient. The sole survivor.

Barret: …What did you say? But, aren't you her mother?

Elmyra: …Not her real mother. Oh…it must have been 15 years ago… …during the
war. My husband was sent to the front. Some far away place called Wutai.

In Elmyra's memory…

Elmyra: One day, I went to the station because I got a letter saying he was
coming home on leave. My husband never came back. I wonder if something
happened to him? No, I'm sure his leave was just canceled. I went to the
station everyday. Then, one day……… You used to see this sort of thing a
lotduring the war. Her last words were, "Please take Aerith somewhere safe." My
husband never came back. I had no child. I was probably lonely. So I decided to
take her home with me. Aerith and I became close very quickly. That child loved
to talk. She used to talk to me about everything. She told me she escaped from
some kind of research laboratory somewhere. And that her mother had already
returned to the planet, so she wasn't lonely…and many other things.

The memory ended.

Barret: Returned to the planet?

Elmyra: I didn't know what she meant. I asked if she meant a star in the sky,
but she said it was this planet… She was a mysterious child in many ways.

In Elmyra's memory when Aerith is young…

Aerith: Mom. Please don't cry.

Elmyra: (talks about her memory) Aerith just blurted that out all of a sudden.
When I asked her if something happened…

Aerith: Someone dear to you has just died. His spirit was coming to see you,
but he already returned to the planet.

Elmyra: At that time I didn't believe her. But… Several days later… We received
a notice saying my husband died… …and that's how it was. A lot had happened,
but we were happy. Until one day…

In the next scene at Elmyra’s house, Tseng appeared at the scene.

Tseng: We want you to return Aerith to us. We've been searching for her for a
long time.

Aerith: No! Never!

Tseng: Aerith, you're a very special child. You are of special blood. Your real
mother was an 'Ancient'.

Elmyra: Of course I heard it. That she was an 'Ancient'.

Tseng: The Ancients will lead us to a land of supreme happiness. Aerith will be
able to bring happiness to all those in the slums. That is why Shinra would
like Aerith's cooperation……

Aerith: He's wrong! I'm not an Ancient! I'm not!

Tseng: But Aerith, surely you hear voices sometimes when you're all alone?

Aerith: No, I don't!

Aerith ran away from the scene.

Elmyra: But I knew. I knew about her mysterious powers… She tried so hard to
hide it, so I acted as though I never noticed.

The memory ended.

Cloud: It's amazing how she's avoided the Shinra for all these years…

Elmyra: The Shinra needed her, so I guess they wouldn't harm her.

Tifa: But why now……

Elmyra: She brought a little girl here with her. On the way here, Tseng found
them. She probably couldn't get away fast enough. She decided to go to the
Shinra in exchange for the little girl's safety.

Cloud: Must be Marlene.

Barret: Marlene!! Aerith was caught because of Marlene!? I'm sorry. Marlene's
my daughter. I'm …really…sorry…

Elmyra: You're her father!? How in the world could you ever leave a child alone
like that!?

Barret: …please don't start with that. I think about it all the time. What
would happen to Marlene, if I… But you gotta understand somethin'…I don't got
an answer. I wanna be with Marlene… But I gotta fight. 'Cause if I don't…the
planet's gonna die. So I'm gonna keep fightin'! But, I'm worried 'bout Marlene.
I really just wanna be with her…always. See? I'm goin' in circles, now.

Elmyra: …I think I understand what you're saying… She's upstairs asleep, why
don't you go and see her.

Cloud proceeds upstairs. In the room with Barret and Marlene…

Barret: I'm so glad…… I'm so glad you're all right…

Marlene: Daddy, don't cry. Your whiskers hurt!

Barret: (to Cloud) Cloud! You gonna go help Aeris, right? She's done so much
for me… If it's the Shinra you're dealin' with, I can't just sit here! I'm
comin' too!

Marlene: (to Cloud) Guess what? Guess what? Aeris was asking me lots of
questions. Like what kind of person Cloud is. I bet she likes you, Cloud!

Cloud: Let's hope so.

Marlene: I won't tell Tifa.

Before Cloud could leave Aerith's house…

Tifa: You're going after Aerith, right?

Cloud: Yeah.

Tifa: I'm coming with you.

Cloud: We're going right to Shinra Headquarters. …You gotta be prepared for the
worst.

Tifa: I know. Right now, I feel I have to push myself to the limit. If I stayed
here…I'll go crazy.

Barret suddenly ran downstairs approaching Elmyra.

Barret: (to Elmyra) Sorry, but can you take care of Marlene a bit longer?

Elmyra: Yes, I don't mind.

Barret: This place is dangerous now. You better go somewhere else.

Elmyra: You're right. But promise me that you'll come back to her. Don't get
yourself killed.

Cloud's group exits Elmyra’s house. Outside of Sector 6…

Tifa: How do we get to the Shinra building?

Barret: There ain't no train that goes up there anymore…

Tifa: ……Well, let's just go to Wall Market. We might be able to find something
there.

Cloud’s group proceeds to the Wall Market. In the shop, Cloud’s group talks to
the clerk.

Clerk: You goin' up to the plate? You better have a Battery.

Cloud: You're gonna sell me something you just found?

Clerk: Hey, you knew? But I repaired it, so it's all right.

Cloud: Why do I need a battery to climb up to the plate?

Clerk: You'll find out when you get there. How 'bout 100 Gil for each?

Cloud: ……All right, I'll take them.

Cloud’s group bought Batteries. Cloud’s group proceeds to the wire.

Kid: Everyone climbed up this Looks scary…… Brrr.

Tifa: Can we climb it?

Kid: Yeah. It leads to the Upper World.

Barret: Awright! We'll climb this wire!

Cloud: There's no way we can do this. You know how far it goes up?

Barret: This IS away! Look! What's that look like?

Cloud: Just a normal wire.

Barret: Oh yeah? Well to me it looks like a golden shiny wire of hope.

Tifa: You're right. This is the only way to save Aerith…

Cloud: Ok, that was a bad analogy, but, Barret, I understand how you feel.
Let's go!

Cloud's group climbs up the debris. Cloud’s group used the Batteries to create
platforms to get up to the Shinra Headquarters. Upon arrival…

Barret: Hey, you oughta know this building well.

Cloud: …Not really, now that I think about it, this's the first time I've ever
been to the Headquarters.

Barret: I heard about this place before. Every floor above the 60th is special
and not easy to get to even for employees. Must be where they took Aerith. The
security's pretty light now. Awright, let's go!!

Tifa: Wait a second! You're not thinking of just going right through the main
entrance, are you?

Barret: Well what else does it look like!? I'm gonna kick some Shinra butt and……

Tifa: That's not going to work! We've got to find another way…

Barret: Ain't gonna be no other way! If we keep wastin' time like this,
Aerith'll…

Tifa: I know that! But if we get caught here… Hey, Cloud. …What should we do?

Cloud: Let's sneak in quietly.

Tifa: See? Let's be careful and find a different route!

Cloud’s group enters Shinra’s Headquarters. In the lobby…

Receptionist: Excuse me! If you don't have an appointment, you'll just have to…

Barret: Don't need no appointment… This is a 'mergency'! Anyone who don't wanna
get their face bashed in better git outta the way!!

People: Yaagghh! Who do they think they are? Y, You don't think that's
AVALANCHE?

Guards: Intruders! Seize them!!

Cloud's group fights the Grenade Combatants. After Cloud’s group defeats the
Grenade Combatants…

Barret: Let's go to the top!

Cloud's group proceeds to the elevator and goes up.

Tifa: (to Cloud) ……What's wrong?

Cloud: I didn't want to start a ruckus till we saved Aerith. I should have
known that was impossible though…

Barret: Heh, heh, heh.

Cloud: What is it? You're givin' me the willies.

Barret: So there are times when even you fight for other people. I am impressed.

Cloud: Who cares if you're impressed…?

Barret: Y'know, I ain't so good at sayin' this, but… Sorry…for lotsa things.
Wh, what the!?

Suddenly, the elevator is on red alert.

Tifa: Look!

Barret: DA-MN…! I don't care where, Cloud! Just stop it!

Cloud’s group fights a bunch of soldiers at the stop of some floors. After a
long fight, Cloud’s group made it to the 59th floor. Cloud's group proceeds to
the other elevator. Then suddenly…

Guard: Destroy the intruders!

Cloud’s group fights the guards. After Cloud’s group defeated the guards, they
received Keycard 60. Cloud’s group proceeds to the elevator and reached the
60th floor. We watch a movie of a guard slumbering in a surveillance room and
the camera showing Cloud’s group on the monitor. Cloud’s group got out of the
elevator. Then…

Barret: Lookit that, all them guards is runnin' around. Cloud, you go on ahead
and signal us when it's safe to come.

Cloud manages to get Barret and Tifa to safety. Cloud’s group proceeds to the
escalator.

Barret: Ok! We gonna rock!

Tifa: Remember, we're here to save Aerith.

Barret: Hell, I know that!

Cloud’s group proceeds to the 66th floor. Cloud’s group found a restroom and
climbs up and enters a duct. Then, Cloud’s group glances at the other cage and
watches a meeting with the Shinras.

Barret: (to Tifa and Cloud) Geez--! That's a lotta suits!

Reeve: We have the damage estimates for Sector 7. Considering those factories
we already set up and all the investments, the damage is estimated cost to
rebuild Sector 7 is…

President Shinra: We're not rebuilding.

Reeve: What?

President Shinra: We're leaving Sector 7 as it is. And restarting the
Neo-Midgar plan.

Reeve: …then the Ancients?

President Shinra: The Promised Land will soon be ours. I want you to raise the
Mako rates 15% in every area.

Palmer: Rate hike! Rate hike! Tra, la, la! And please include our Space Program
in the budget!

President Shinra: Reeve and Scarlet will divide the extra income from the rate
increase.

Palmer: Oh man!

Reeve: Sir. If you raise the rates, the people will lose confidence…

President Shinra: It'll be all right. The ignorant citizens won't lose
confidence, they'll trust Shinra, Inc. even more.

Heidegger: Ha ha ha! After all, we're the ones who saved Sector 7 from
AVALANCHE!

Barret: (talking from the duct quietly) That dirty *$#@.

Hojo appeared at the scene.

President Shinra: Hojo. How's the girl?

Hojo: As a specimen, she is inferior to her mother. I'm still in the process of
comparing her to her mother, Infalna, but for now the difference is 18%.

President Shinra: How long will the research take?

Hojo: Probably 120 years. It's probably impossible to finish in our life time.
Or in the lifetime of the specimen too, for that matter. That's why we're
thinking of breeding her. Then we could create one that could withstand our
research for a long time.

President Shinra: What about the Promised Land? Won't it hinder our plans?

Hojo: That's what I need to plan. The mother is strong…and yet has her
weaknesses.

President Shinra: (to his folks) That concludes our meeting.

The Shinras left the scene.

Scarlet: (puzzled) Something stinks…

The camera switches to the duct where Cloud’s group is in.

Cloud: They were talking about Aerith…right?

Barret: I dunno.

Tifa: Probably.

Cloud: Let's follow 'em.

Cloud’s group goes out of the duct and down to the bathroom. Cloud's group goes
to the escalator that leads to the 67th floor.

Cloud: Hojo…huh…?

Cloud’s group arrived at the 67th floor.

Barret: I remembered him. That Hojo guy. He's in charge of the Shinra's Science
Department. Cloud, don't know him?

Cloud: This is the first time I've actually ever seen him. So…that's what he
looks like…

Cloud's group moves on. Cloud’s group then takes their hiding position.

Man: Is this today's specimen?

Hojo: Yes. We're starting right away. Raise it to the upper level. My precious
specimen…

Hojo looks at the specimen. Hojo then left the scene. After that…

Tifa: Precious specimen…? Is it going to be used for a biological experiment?

Cloud: (looking at a specimen's tank) Jenova…

Cloud starts to flip out uncontrollably from looking at Jenova. Afterwards,
Cloud gained his sense.

Cloud: Jenova… Sephiroth's… So…they've brought it here.

Tifa: Cloud, be strong!

Cloud: Did you see it?

Barret: See what?

Cloud: It's moving… …still alive?

Barret: Where's its #%$*#&$ head? This whole thing's stupid. Let's keep goin'.

Cloud's group proceeds to the elevator to the 68th floor. In the 68th floor…

Cloud: Aerith!

Hojo: Aerith? Oh, is that her name? What do you want?

Cloud: We're taking Aerith back.

Hojo: Outsiders……

Barret: Shoulda noticed it earlier, you…

Hojo: There's so many frivolous things in this world.

Barret aims his mechanical arm gun at Hojo.

Hojo: Are you going to kill me? I don't think you should. The equipment here is
extremely delicate. Without me, who could operate it? Hmm?

Cloud: Ugh.

Hojo: That's right. I recommend you think things out logically before you make
any rash moves. Now bring in the Specimen!

The man brought up a red four-legged beast near Aerith.

Aerith: Cloud, help!

Cloud: What do you think you're doin'?

Hojo: Lending a helping hand to an endangered species… Both of them are on the
brink of extinction… If I don't help, all these animals will disappear.

Tifa: …animal? That's terrible! Aerith is a human being!

Barret: You're gonna pay!

Cloud: Barret! Can't you do anything?

Barret: Awright!! Step back!

Hojo: Stop!!

Barret open fires at the glass door.

Hojo: Wh…what are you do-- Oh! My precious specimens…

The door opened. Then, the red four-legged beast came out and tackles Hojo.

Cloud: Now's our chance to get Aerith!

Aerith: Thanks, Cloud.

Tifa: Cloud…what's wrong?

Cloud: …The elevator is moving.

Hojo: This is no ordinary specimen. This is a very ferocious specimen!

Four-legged Beast: He's rather strong. I'll help you all out.

Tifa: It talked!?

Four-legged Beast: I'll talk as much as you want later, Miss.

Cloud: We'll take care of that monster. Somebody take Aeris somewhere safe…
Tifa, I'm countin' on you! (to the specimen) What's your name?

Red XIII: Hojo has named me, Red XIII. A name with no meaning whatsoever to me.

Cloud: Come on!

The four-legged beast will be known as Red XIII from this point on. Cloud's
group fight Sample:HO512 and Sample:HO512-opts. After Cloud’s group defeats
Sample:HO512 and Sample:HO512-opts…

Cloud: Aerith, you all right?

Tifa: She seems all right, …in many ways.

Red XIII: I have a right to choose, too. I don't like two-legged things.

Barret: What are you?

Red XIII: An informed question. But difficult to answer. I am what you see.
…You must have many questions, but first, let's get out of here. I'll lead the
way.

Aerith: Cloud…so you did come for me.

Red XIII: I apologize for what happened back there. I was merely acting to
throw Hojo off guard……

Barret: Now we've saved Aeris, ain't no need to be is this buildin'! So let's
get the hell outta here!

Cloud: If all five of us together, we'll be noticed. Let's break up in two
groups.

Cloud chose Barret and Tifa to go with him.

Aerith: I'll see you later!! We'll be waiting at the 66th floor Elevator.

Red XIII: Don't be late. Do you know where the Elevator is? The 66th Floor!

Cloud's group proceeds to the elevator, before he can even press the elevator
button, a mysterious man appeared at the scene.

Cloud: H, hey! What is it?

Rude: Would you press 'Up' please?

Cloud: Turks? Must be a trap…

Tseng: It must have been a real thrill for you… Did you enjoy it?

Cloud: Ggh…

Later, Cloud's group was seized and they arrived at the President's office in
handcuffs.

Cloud: (to his folks) You all got caught, too? Where is Aerith!?

President Shinra: In a safe place. She's the last surviving Ancient… Don't you
know? They called themselves the Cetra, and lived thousands of years ago. Now
they are just a forgotten page in history.

Red XIII: Cetra… That girl, is she a survivor of the Cetra?

President Shinra: Cetra, or the Ancients will show us the way to the 'Promised
Land.' I'm expecting a lot out of her.

Red XIII: The Promised Land? Isn't that just a legend?

President Shinra: Even so, it's just too appealing to not to pursue. It's been
said the Promised Land is very fertile. …If the land is fertile…

Barret: Then there's gotta be Mako!

President Shinra: Exactly. That is why our money sucking Mako Reactor is
necessary. The abundant Mako will just come out on its own. That is where
Neo-Midgar will be built. Shinra's new glory…

Barret: #$*$#! Quit dreamin'!

President Shinra: Oh really, don't you know? These days all it takes for your
dreams to come true is money and power. Well, that is all for our meeting.

Rude: (to Barret) Come on! Outta his way!

Barret: (to the president) Hold it! I got a lot I wanna say to you!

Rude pushed Barret away and Cloud’s group was sent to the cells.

President Shinra: If you need something else…talk to my secretary.

Later Cloud's group is confined in their cells.

Cloud: I wonder how Barret is doing.

Barret: Hey! Aeris is an Ancient and the real name of the Ancients is Cetra.
The Ancients know where the Promised Land is and the Shinra is searching for
that Promised Land. I only heard stories 'bout the Promised Land. I don't know
if it really exists. Is that right? The Shinra believe that the Promised Land
is full of Mako energy. Which means, if the Shinra get there, they'll suck up
all the Mako energy. …and the land'll wither away. The Planet's gonna get
weaker. I can't just leave'em be. I'm recruitin' new members!! Me, Tifa,
Cloud…and Aerith too. How 'bout you?

Red XIII doesn't respond.

Barret: You're so damn boring.

Cloud: I wonder how Red XIII is doing.

Red XIII: …………Grandpa.

Barret: Grandpa!? Ha, ha, ha… Grandpa, hmm…… ha, ha, ha…

Red XIII: What's so funny?

Barret: Nothin' ……ha, ha.

Cloud: I wonder how Aerith is doing.

Aerith: Cloud, are you there?

Cloud: Aerith!? You safe?

Aerith: Yeah, I'm all right. I knew that Cloud would come for me.

Cloud: Hey, I'm your bodyguard right?

Aerith: The deal was for one date, right?

Tifa: …………oh, I get it.

Aerith: …!? Tifa! Tifa, you're there too!

Tifa: EXCUSE me. You know, Aeris. I have a question.

Aerith: What?

Tifa: Does the Promised Land really exist?

Aerith: …I don't know. All I know is… The Cetra were born from the Planet,
speak with the Planet, and unlock the Planet. And……then… The Cetra will return
to the Promised Land. A land that promises supreme happiness.

Tifa: …What does that mean?

Aerith: More than words……I don't know.

Cloud: …Speak with the Planet?

Tifa: Just what does the Planet say?

Aerith: It's full of people and noisy. That's why I can't make out what they
are saying.

Cloud: You hear it now?

Aerith: I, I only heard it at the Church in the Slums. Mother said that Midgar
was no longer safe. That is…my real mother. Someday I'll get out of Midgar…
Speak with the Planet and find my Promised Land. …That's what mom said. I
thought I would stop hearing her voice as I grew up, but…

Cloud talks to Tifa.

Tifa: Psst (Can we get out?)

Cloud: Leave it to me.

Tifa: Cloud, you're so brave!

Cloud: (to himself) Let's just get some sleep.

After a while of slumber…

Cloud: The door's open… When did it open?

Cloud saw a guard who is dead.

Cloud: What's happened? Tifa… Wake up!

Tifa: What's wrong?

Cloud: Something's wrong. Look outside.

Tifa: (looked at the dead guard) I wonder what happened...

Cloud: He should have the key on him… Come on, Tifa, get Aerith. I'll go help
Barret and the others.

Cloud’s group opens the cell door with Barret and Red XIII inside.

Barret: How'd you get in? Why's the door open!? (looked at the dead guard) The
hell's goin' on!?

Red XIII: No human could've done this. I'll go on ahead.

Barret: I'll clean up back here, so you guys go ahead. And don't get caught by
Shinra!

Cloud talks to Tifa.

Tifa: Come on, let's follow Red XIII.

Cloud, Aerith, and Tifa met up with Red XIII.

Red XIII: Jenova Specimen… Looks like it went to the upper floor using that
elevator for the specimens.

Cloud's group goes to the 68th floor and met up with Red XIII again.

Red XIII: It looks like it leads up…

Cloud’s group followed the blood path to the president's office. Upon arrival,
Cloud’s group witnessed the president sitting dead with a sword impaled on him.

Barret: He's dead… The leader of Shinra, Inc. is dead…

Tifa: Then this sword must be…!?

Cloud: Sephiroth's!!

Tifa: …Sephiroth is alive?

Cloud: …Looks like it. Only Sephiroth can use that sword.

Barret: Who cares who did it!? This is the end of the Shinra now!

Palmer shows up.

Palmer: P, p, p, please, don't kill me!

Cloud: What happened?

Palmer: Se …Sephiroth. Sephiroth came.

Cloud: Did you see him? Did you see Sephiroth?

Palmer: Yeah, I saw him! I saw him with my own eyes!

Cloud: You really saw him?

Palmer: Uh! Would I lie to you at a time like this!? And I heard his voice too!
Um, he was saying something about not letting us have the Promised Land.

Tifa: Then what? Does that mean that the Promised Land really exist and that
Sephiroth's here to save it from Shinra?

Barret: So he's a good guy then?

Cloud: Save the Promised Land? A good guy? No way!! It's not that simple! I
know him! Sephiroth's mission is different!

A Shinra Helicopter came and Palmer ran to the Shinra Helicopter.

Barret: Rufus! $@*%! I forgot about him!

Tifa: Who's that?

Barret: Vice President Rufus. The President's son.

Cloud's group proceeds outside of the building on the top floor. Rufus appeared
at the scene.

Rufus: So… So Sephiroth was actually here. …By the way. Who are you guys?

Cloud: I'm Cloud, former SOLDIER First Class!

Barret: I'm from AVALANCHE!

Tifa: Same here!

Aerith: …a flower girl from the slums.

Red XIII: …a research specimen.

Rufus: What a crew. Well, I'm Rufus. The President of Shinra, Inc.

Barret: You only President, 'cause yer old man died!

Rufus: That's right. I'll let you hear my new appointment speech. …Old man
tried to control the world with money. It seems to have been working. The
population thought that Shinra would protect them. Work at Shinra, get your
pay. If a terrorist attacks, the Shinra army will help you. It looks perfect on
the outside. But, I do things differently. I'll control the world with fear. It
takes too much to do it like my old man. A little fear will control the minds
of the common people. There's no reason to waste money on them.

Tifa: He likes to make speeches just like his father.

Cloud: (to Barret) Get outta this building with Aerith!

Barret: What?

Cloud: I'll explain later! Barret! This is the real crisis for the Planet!

Barret: The hell's that supposed to mean?

Cloud: I'll tell you later! Just take my word for it now! I'll go after I take
care of him!

Barret: Awright, Cloud!

Barret, Tifa, Aerith, and Red XIII go down to the 69th floor.

Aerith: Cloud... I just thought of something.

Tifa: …I'll wait for Cloud! Everyone, get to the elevator!

Aerith: Hmm, it's going to get pretty ugly from here on. We should check on our
equipment.

Aerith’s group proceeds to the elevator. Suddenly the Hundred Gunner appeared
at the scene. Aerith’s group fights Hundred Gunnner. The Hundred Gunner shot
the elevator glass and the elevator descends fast. After Aerith's group defeats
Hundred Gunner, Heli Gunner appeared at the scene. Aerith's group fights Heli
Gunner. After Aerith’s group defeats Heli Gunner, they stopped the elevator to
the first floor. Meanwhile the camera views the scene with Cloud and Rufus.

Rufus: Why do you want to fight me?

Cloud: You seek the Promised Land and Sephiroth.

Rufus: Hm, exactly. Mm? Did you know that Sephiroth is an Ancient?

Cloud: …A lot has happened. Anyway, I can't let either you or Sephiroth have
the Promised Land!

Rufus: I see. I guess this means we won't become friends.

Cloud fights Rufus and Dark Nation. After Cloud defeats Rufus and Dark Nation…

Rufus: Heh, that's all for today.

Rufus grabbed the Shinra Helicopter’s landing bar and got away from the scene.
After that, Cloud met up with Tifa.

Tifa: Where's Rufus?

Cloud: I couldn't finish 'em. Looks like this's gonna get complicated.

Cloud and Tifa moves on. The camera switches to Aerith’s group who arrived at
the lobby.

Barret: I'll go on ahead.

Barret saw the Shinra soldiers outside and immediately came back to Aerith’s
group.

Barret: &^&%…surrounded, huh? If I was alone this wouldn't be a thang but, I
gotta reputation to protect.

Aerith: You all get out while you can. It's not you they're after…it's me.

Barret: Yeah, well that ain't happenin'. You got caught up in this over
Marlene. Now, it's my turn to watch out for you! (to the Shinra Soldiers) Ok,
playtime's over for you jackasses…

Aerith: …thank you, Mr. Barret!

Barret: Who you callin' Mr. Barret? That don't sound right!

Red XIII: Well then… If you are through talking, may I suggest that we think of
a way to get out of here.

Barret: Huh? Oh, oh yeah… You a cold man. Just like someone else 'round here I
know.

Red XIII: Did you say something?

Barret: Notta thing. So what're we gonna do?

Tifa: Barret!!

Barret: Tifa! Where's Cloud?

Tifa: Everyone, over here!

Barret: Huh? What's up? Where's Cloud?

Tifa: I'll tell you later! Hurry, hurry!

We watch a movie of Tifa, Aerith, Barret, and Red XIII boarding a truck with
Tifa driving and Cloud appeared on a motorcycle. Cloud’s group drove out of the
building by shattering the glass window and landing on the freeway. Cloud
readies his sword against the incoming Shinras. Cloud fights the incoming
Shinra soldiers on motorcycles. After doing this for a while, Cloud’s group
reached the dead end and a big vehicle was following them. Cloud's group
disembarks their vehicles. Cloud’s group fights Motor Ball. After Cloud’s group
defeats Motor Ball…

Barret: Well, what do we do now?

Cloud: Sephiroth is alive. I…I have to settle the score.

Barret: And that'll save the Planet?

Cloud: …Seems like it.

Barret: Awright, I'm going!

Aerith: I'll go too. …I have things that I want to find out.

Cloud: About the Ancients?

Aerith: ……Many things.

Tifa: I guess this's good bye, Midgar.

Cloud's group used the rope and went outside of Midgar.

Cloud: Then… Let's go!

Barret: We need a group leader for our journey. 'Course only me could be the
leader.

Tifa: You think so…?

Aerith: It would have to be Cloud.

Barret: $*$&%……awright. Go Northeast to a town called Kalm. If something
happens, we'll meet up there. 'Sides, we can't have 5 people strolling down the
fields. It's too dangerous. Split us into 2 parties…

Cloud chose Barret and Tifa to go with him. Cloud’s group proceeds to Kalm town.

Tifa: So this is Kalm?

Barret: Yo, I'll be waitin' at the inn… Hurry up and get your butt over there!

Tifa: Let's go Cloud.

Inside the inn, Cloud met up with his group.

Aerith: Cloud, you're late!

Barret: Yo man, you're late!

Cloud: Sorry to keep you waiting.

Aerith: Guess everyone's here now.

Barret: So let's hear your story…… You know, the one about Sephiroth and the
crisis facing the planet. Let's hear it all.

Cloud: ……I used to want to be like Sephiroth so I joined SOLDIER. After working
with Sephiroth on several missions, we became friends.

Barret: You call that a friend?

Cloud: Yeah, well…… He's older than me, and he hardly ever talked about himself.

Tifa: ………

Cloud: So I guess you'd call him a war buddy, We trusted each other. Until one
day……

Aerith: …one day?

Cloud: After the war it was SOLDIER's duty to put down any resistance against
the Shinra. ……that was 5 years ago. I was 16……

In Cloud's memory, Cloud sits in the back of the truck along with other
SOLDIERs…

Cloud: It's sure raining hard. Hey, how are you doing?

Shinra Soldier: I'm all right.

Cloud: I wouldn't know… I've never had motion sickness. (to the other Shinra
soldier) Everything okay?

Sephiroth: Hey. Settle down.

Cloud: They gave me some new Materia. I can't wait to use it.

Sephiroth: …just like a kid.

Cloud: You going to brief about this mission?

Sephiroth: …this isn't a typical mission.

Cloud: Good!

Sephiroth: Why do you say that?

Cloud: I joined SOLDIER so I could be like you. But by the time I made First
class, the war was already over. My big hopes of becoming a hero like you ended
with the war. That's why I always sign up whenever there's a big mission. Kind
of a way to prove myself. Say, how do you feel, MISTER Sephiroth?

Sephiroth: …I thought you wanted a briefing? Our mission is to investigate an
old Mako reactor. There have been reports of it malfunctioning, and producing
brutal creatures. Then, we'll locate the problem and neutralize it.

Cloud: Brutal creatures… Where?

Sephiroth: The Mako Reactor at Nibelheim.

Cloud: Nibelheim… That's where I'm from.

Sephiroth: Hmm…hometown…

Shinra Soldier: Sir …s, something strange just crashed into our truck!

Sephiroth: That would be our Monster…

Cloud and Sephiroth fights the monster. Sephiroth immediately defeated the
monster. The memory ended.

Cloud: Sephiroth's strength is unreal. He is far stronger in reality then any
story you might have heard about him.

Aerith: So… Where do you come in?

Cloud: Me? I was mesmerized by the way Sephiroth fought.

Tifa: ………

Cloud: ……and then we reached Nibelheim.

In Cloud's memory where they're at Nibelheim…

Sephiroth: How does it feel? It's your first time back to your hometown in a
long time, right? So how does it feel? I wouldn't know because I don't have a
hometown…

Cloud: Ummm…how 'bout your parents?

Sephiroth: My mother is Jenova. She died right after she gave birth to me. My
father… What does it matter…? All right, let's go.

The memory ended.

Barret: Yo wait a minute!! Isn't that, um…? The name of Sephiroth's mother… I
remember Jenova. That's that damn headless spook livin' in the Shinra building.

Cloud: That's right.

Tifa: Barret, would you please let us hear what Cloud has to say? You can ask
questions later.

Barret: Tifa, I was only……

Tifa: (ignoring Barret) Okay Cloud, continue.

Aerith: It's a reunion of childhood pals!

Cloud: …I was really surprised with Tifa.

In Cloud's memory, the camera views Nibelheim.

Cloud: (talking about his past) …The town was quiet. Everybody must be staying
in their housed, afraid to come out because of the monsters. No, maybe they're
afraid of us…

Sephiroth: We leave for the reactor at dawn. Make sure you get to sleep early.
All we need is one lookout, so you others, get some rest. Oh, that's right… You
may visit your family and friends.

Inside the inn…

Cloud: What are you looking at?

Sephiroth: …This scenery…… I feel like I know this place. …… …We have an early
start tomorrow. You should get some sleep soon.

Cloud: Yeah, let's get some sleep.

Sephiroth: I've hired a guide to the Mako reactor. I've heard she's young, I
hope we can rely on her…

The next morning…

Sephiroth: Once the guide gets here, we're heading out.

Tifa’s Father: Listen to me, Sephiroth. In case something happens…

Sephiroth: …Trust me.

Tifa: I'll be all right, Dad! I have two men from SOLDIER with me. (to
Sephiroth) I'm Tifa. Nice to meet you.

Cloud: Tifa! You're the guide?

Tifa: That's right. I just happen to be the number one guide in this town.

Cloud: It's too dangerous! I can't involve you in something like this!

Sephiroth: Then there's no problem if you protect her. …Let's go.

Camera Man: Ummm…Mr. Sephiroth! Please let me take one picture for a memento!
Tifa, can you ask him for me too…? Cheeeeese!

The camera man took the photo of Cloud’s group.

Camera Man: Great, thank you! I'll give each of you a copy once I get it
developed!

We watch a movie of Mt. Nibel and the Reactor in that area. Cloud's group
arrived at the scene.

Tifa: It gets harder from here! Follow me! Uh…the bridge!!

We watch a movie of the bridge coming apart and everyone fell. After that…

Sephiroth: Everyone seems to be all right. Can we get back to where we were?

Tifa: These caves are intertwined, just like an ant farm… Oh, and Sephiroth…
There seems to be one person missing…

Sephiroth: It may sound cold, but we've got no time to search for him. We can't
go back now, so we must go on. We'll travel together from here.

Later, inside the cave…

Cloud: What's this?

Tifa: A mysteriously colored cave…

Sephiroth: It must be the Mako energy. This fountain is especially abundant in
it. That's why the Mako Reactor was built here.

Cloud’s group arrived in a bizarre area…

Cloud: …And what's this?

Sephiroth: A Mako fountain. It's a miracle of nature.

Tifa: It's so beautiful… If the Mako Reactor continues to suck up the energy,
this fountain will dry up too…

Sephiroth: Materia. When you condense Mako energy, materia is produced. It's
very rare to be able to see materia in its natural state.

Cloud: By the way… Why is it that when you use materia you can also use magic
too?

Sephiroth: You were in SOLDIER and didn't even know that? …the knowledge and
wisdom of the Ancients is held in the materia. Anyone with this knowledge can
freely use the powers of the Land and the Planet. That knowledge interacts
between ourselves and the planet calling up magic……or so they say.

Cloud: Magic……a mysterious power…

Sephiroth: Ha, ha, ha!

Cloud: Did I say something funny?

Sephiroth: A man once told me never to use an unscientific term such as
mysterious power! It shouldn't even be called 'magic'! I still remember how
angry he was.

Cloud: What was that?

Sephiroth: Hojo of Shinra, Inc. … An inexperienced man assigned to take over
the work of a great scientist. He was a walking mass of complexes.

Tifa: A Mako fountain… So this is where the knowledge of the Ancients is.

Later, Cloud’s group proceeds to the reactor.

Tifa: We finally made it. We sure took the long way through.

Cloud: Tifa, you wait here.

Tifa: I'm going inside too! I wanna see!

Sephiroth: Only authorized people are allowed in. This place is full of
Shinra's industrial secrets.

Tifa: But!

Sephiroth: (to the Shinra soldier) Take care of the lady.

Tifa: Mm, man! Better take real good care of me then!

Later in the reactor…

Cloud: This is…… Jenova, right? The lock won't open…

Sephiroth: This is the reason for the malfunction. This part is broken. Cloud,
close the valve.

Cloud closed the valve.

Sephiroth: Why did it break…? …now I see, Hojo. But, even doing this, will
never put you on the same level as Professor Gast. This is a system that
condenses and freezes the Mako energy…that is, when it's working correctly.
Now…what does Mako energy became when it's further condensed?

Cloud: Uh, ummm…… Oh yeah! It becomes a Materia.

Sephiroth: Right, normally. But Hojo put something else in there. …Take a look.
Look through the window.

Cloud looked.

Cloud: Wh…what is this!?

Sephiroth: Normal members of SOLDIER are humans that have been showered with
Mako. You're different from the others, but still human. But, what are they?
They've been exposed to a high degree of Mako, far more than you.

Cloud: …is this some kind of monster?

Sephiroth: Exactly. And it's Hojo of Shinra that produced these monsters.
Mutated living organisms produced by Mako energy. That's what these monster's
really are.

Cloud: Normal members of SOLDIER? You mean you're different? H…hey, Sephiroth!

Sephiroth: N…no…… …Was I?

Sephiroth draws his sword and kept slashing the containers.

Sephiroth: …Was I created this way too? Am I the same as all these monsters……

Cloud: …Sephiroth.

Sephiroth: You saw it! All of them…were humans…

Cloud: Humans!? No way!

Sephiroth: …I've always felt since I was small… That I was different from the
others. Special, in some way. But…not like this…

We watch a movie of an organism bursting out of a container. The memory ended.

Barret: Damn, Shinra! The more I hear, the more I hate 'em!

Tifa: ……who would have ever thought the Mako Reactor held a secret like that.

Red XIII: That would seem to explain the increase in the number of monsters
recently. I think we should listen carefully to Cloud. Don't you think so
Barret?

Barret: (Why are you talkin' to me!?) Keep talking.

Aerith: Tifa… You were waiting outside then?

Tifa: ……Yes.

Cloud: We returned to Nibelheim. Sephiroth confined himself at the inn. He
didn't even try to talk to me.

Tifa: Then all of a sudden he just disappeared, right?

Cloud: We found him inside the biggest building in Nibelheim.

Tifa: The villagers used to call it Shinra mansion.

Cloud: Long ago, people from Shinra used to live in that mansion…

In Cloud's memory where he's in the Shinra Mansion's basement…

Sephiroth: (reading a book) …an organism that was apparently dead, was found in
a 2000 year old geological stratum. Professor Gast named that organism, Jenova…
X Year, X Month, X Day. Jenova confirmed to be an Ancient …X Year, X Month, X
Day. Jenova Project approved. The use of Mako Reactor I approved for use… My
mother's name is Jenova… Jenova Project… Is this just a coincidence? Professor
Gast… Why didn't you tell me anything? …Why did you die?

Cloud left the scene. Later, Cloud wakes up from the bed and goes down to the
basement.

Sephiroth: Ha, ha, ha…… Who is it!? Hmph…traitor.

Cloud: Traitor?

Sephiroth: You ignorant traitor. I'll tell you. This was an itinerant race.
They would migrate in, settle the Planet, then move on… At the end of their
harsh, hard journey, they would find the Promised Land and supreme happiness.
But, those who stopped their migrations built shelters and elected to lead an
easier life. They took that which the Cetra and the planet had made without
giving back one whit in return! Those are your ancestors.

Cloud: Sephiroth…

Sephiroth: Long ago, disaster struck this planet. Your ancestors escaped… They
survived because they hid. The Planet was saved by sacrificing the Cetra. After
that, your ancestors continued to increase. Now all that's left of the Cetra is
in these reports.

Cloud: What does that have to do with you?

Sephiroth: Don't you get it? An Ancient named Jenova was found in the
geological stratum of 2000 years ago. The Jenova Project. The Jenova Project
wanted to produce people with the powers of the Ancients……no, the Cetra! …I am
the one that was produced.

Cloud: Pr…produced!?

Sephiroth: Yes. Professor Gast, leader of the Jenova Project and genius
scientist, produced me.

Cloud: How…how did he…? Se…Sephiroth?

Sephiroth: Out of my way. I'm going to see my mother.

Sephiroth left the scene. Just as Cloud follows him outside of the Shinra
Mansion, the town is burning.

Zangan: Hey it's you! You're still sane, right? Then come over here and help
me! I'll check this house. You check that one over there!

Cloud checks the other house and then went outside immediately.

Cloud: Terrible… Sephiroth… This is too terrible…

Suddenly, Cloud saw Sephiroth slain two people. We watch a movie of Sephiroth
walking away with flames all over the place. Cloud then proceeds to the Mako
Reactor. Cloud then witness Tifa's father's lying dead.

Tifa: Papa… Sephiroth!? Sephiroth did this to you, didn't he!? Sephiroth…
SOLDIER… Mako Reactors… Shinra… Everything! I hate them all!

Tifa took Sephiroth’s sword and ran away from the scene. Cloud follows Tifa to
the reactor.

Sephiroth: Mother, I'm here to see you. Please, open this door.

Tifa: How could you do that to papa and all the townspeople?

Tifa attempts to attack Sephiroth, but Sephiroth took the sword from her and
slashed her. Tifa falls down the stairs to Cloud’s level. Sephiroth then went
inside the room with Jenova. Cloud checks on Tifa who was seriously wounded.

Tifa: …You promised… You promised that you'd come……when I was in trouble…

Cloud carries Tifa and places her in a safe place. Cloud then goes inside the
room with Jenova.

Sephiroth: Mother, let's take this planet back together. I've thought of a
great idea. Let's go to the Promised Land.

Cloud: Sephiroth… My family! My hometown! How could you do this to them!?

Sephiroth: Ha, ha, ha…… They've come again, mother. With her superior power,
knowledge, and magic, Mother was destined to become the ruler of the Planet.

We watch a movie of Sephiroth.

Sephiroth: But they… Those worthless creatures are stealing the Planet from
Mother. But now I'm here with you so don't worry.

Sephiroth took off Jenova’s machine.

Cloud: What about MY sadness!? My family…friends… The sadness of having my
hometown taken away from me!? It's the same as your sadness!

Sephiroth: Ha, ha, ha…my sadness? What do I have to be sad about? I am the
chosen one. I have been chosen to be the leader of this Planet. I have orders
to take this planet back from you stupid people for the Cetra. What am I
supposed to be sad about?

Cloud: Sephiroth… I trusted you… No, you're not the Sephiroth I used to know!

Cloud draws his sword and the camera switches back and forth with Cloud and
Sephiroth. The memory ended.

Cloud: ……and that's the end of my story.

Barret: Wait a damn minute! Ain't there more?

Cloud: ……I don't remember.

Aerith: What happened to Sephiroth?

Cloud: In terms of skill, I couldn't have killed him.

Tifa: Official records state Sephiroth is dead. I read it in the newspaper.

Aerith: Shinra, Inc. owns the paper, so you can't rely on that information.

Cloud: ……I want to know the truth. I wanted to know what happened then. I
challenged Sephiroth and lived why didn't he kill me?

Tifa: ……I'm alive, too.

Aerith: Seem like a lot of this doesn't make sense. What about Jenova? It was
in the Shinra building, right?

Cloud: Shinra shipped it from Nibelheim to Midgar.

Aerith: Did someone else carry it out after that? It was missing from the
Shinra building.

Tifa: Sephiroth……?

Barret: Damn! Don't none of this make sense! I'm going, going, going, gone! And
I'm leavin' the thinkin' to you! Yo, Cloud! Let's get a move on!

Cloud: Right.

Barret: Yo, c'mon let's go!

Barret left the scene.

Cloud: Oh brother……

Tifa: ……… Cloud…? How bad was I when Sephiroth cut me?

Cloud: I thought you were a goner. ……I was really sad.

Tifa: ………

Aerith: I… The Ancients…… Cetra…… Jenova…… Sephiroth and myself……

Aerith left the scene.

Tifa: Let's go. Barret's waiting.

Tifa left the scene.

Red XIII: What a fascinating story……

Cloud meets his group downstairs.

Aerith: Cloud. Take this.

Cloud received PHS.

Red XIII: [PHS], will put us in constant contact with each other.

Aerith: Well, I'll be going.

Cloud’s group proceeds to the Chocobo Farm and purchased a Chocobo Lure
materia. Cloud equips it and in one of their battle, Cloud’s group fights a
group of enemies with a Chocobo. After Cloud's group caught a Chocobo, they
head to the Mythril Cave. Inside the cave…

Rude: Just a second!

Tifa: Who are you?

Rude: Do you know who I am?

Cloud: From the Turks, right?

Rude: Well if you know, then this won't take long. It's difficult to explain
what the Turks do…

Cloud: Kidnapping, right?

Rude: To put it negatively…you could say that. …But, that's not all there is to
it, anymore. ………… …………

Elena: Sir! It's all right, Rude! I know you don't like speeches, so don't
force it!

Rude: …Then Elena, explain.

Elena: I'm the newest member of the Turks, Elena. Thanks to what you did to
Reno, we're short of people. …Although, because of that, I got promoted to the
Turks… In any case, our job is to find out where Sephiroth is headed. And to
try and step you everystep of the way. Wait a minute, it's the other way
around… You're the ones that are getting in our way.

Tseng: …Elena. You talk too much.

Elena: Sorry…Tseng.

Tseng: No need to tell them about our orders. Now go. Don't forget to file your
report.

Elena: Oh! Right! Very well, Rude and I will go after Sephiroth, who's heading
for Junon Harbor!

Tseng: …Elena. You don't seem to understand.

Elena: Oh! I'm, I'm sorry…

Tseng: …Go. Don't let Sephiroth get away.

Rude & Elena: Yes sir!

Rude: (to Cloud's group) …Reno said he wanted to see you after the injuries you
gave him healed. He wants to show his affection for you all…with a new weapon.

Rude and Elena left the scene.

Tseng: Well, then… …Where's Aerith? She's not with you?

Cloud: Aerith isn't with us. She's with the others.

Tseng: Oh… Then give her my regards.

Tseng left the scene. Cloud’s group exits the cave and proceeds to Junon. On
their way, Cloud’s group encounters a Mystery Ninja. Cloud’s group fights the
Mystery Ninja. After Cloud’s group defeats the Mystery Ninja…

Mystery Ninja: Man…… I can't believe I lost… You spikey-headed jerk! One more
time, let's go one more time!

Cloud: Not interested.

Mystery Ninja: Thinkin' of running away? Stay and fight! FIGHT, I said! C'mon……
What's the matter? You're pretty scared of me, huh!?

Cloud: ……petrified.

Mystery Ninja: Hmm, just as I thought. What do you expect with my skills? Good
luck to you guys too. If you feel up to it, we can go another around. Later!
I'm really gonna leave! REALLY!

Cloud: Wait a second!

Mystery Ninja: What is it, you still have somethin' for me? ……Hmmm. So is that
it? I know you want my help because I'm so good! You want me to go with you?

Cloud: ……That's right.

Mystery Ninja: Heh heh…thought so. You put me in a spot. Hmm, what should I do?
But if you want me that bad, I can't refuse… All right! I'll go with you!

Cloud: ……Let's hurry on.

Cloud’s group left the scene.

Yuffie: Huh? Hey… HEY! Wait! I haven't even told you my name…… I'm Yuffie! Good
to meetcha! (to herself) Heh heh……just as I planned. Now all I have to do is…a
little this……and a little that……nyuk, nyuk, nyuk…… (to Cloud) Hey, wait up!
Wait for me!

The mystery ninja will be known as Yuffie from this point on. Cloud's group
proceeds to Junon.

Cloud: What happened to this town? It's so run-down…

Cloud's group proceeds to the beach of Junon. Upon arrival, Cloud’s group saw a
little girl playing with the dolphin.

Priscilla: He-y! Mr. Dolphin! My name is……Pri-scil-la! Now you say it.

Cloud’s group approaches Priscilla.

Priscilla: Who are you guys? Are you members of the Shinra, Inc.?

Barret: No! You got it all wrong! We're fighting against the Shinra!

Cloud: …that's how it is.

Priscilla: I don't believe you! Get out of here!

Cloud: Great…

Tifa: (saw a flying creature) Look at that!

Priscilla: Be careful Mr. Dolphin!

Bottomswell came out of the water and attacked Priscilla.

Cloud: Hey! Hold on, we've coming!

Cloud's group fights Bottomswell. After Cloud’s group defeats Bottomswell, they
rescued Priscilla from the ocean.

Tifa: This is bad…you don't think she's dead, do you?

Man: Priscilla!! (checking her heartbeat) Nope…she's not breathing… Hey, that's
it! (to Cloud) Young man, CPR, now!

Cloud: Mouth to mouth!?

Barret: C'mon Cloud.

Cloud: But, she's just a girl……

Tifa: Cloud, what are you going to do?

Man: What? You don't know how? Come over here I'll show you.

Cloud: Guess I gotta do it…

Man: Just take a deep breath, hold it in. Then breathe into her. Hurry up and
do it!

Cloud performs the CPR to Priscilla. After that, Priscilla regained her
consciousness.

Priscilla: Uh…ugh…

Man: Priscilla, are you alright?

The man carried Priscilla and took her to her house. Later, Cloud’s group
approaches Priscilla’s house.

Man: Sorry, Cloud, Priscilla needs to rest for a while.

Cloud’s group talks to a woman near another house in Junon.

Woman: Hey, come in for a while. I heard what happened. You've done so much for
Priscilla. You all must be tired. If you want to get some rest, stay here. Make
yourselves at home.

Later, Cloud’s group relaxes at a house.

Barret: I'm gonna relax for a while.

Cloud: Yeah… Let's rest.

In Cloud's dream…

Mysterious Voice: …That reminds me.

Cloud: You again? …Who are you?

Mysterious Voice: …You'll find out soon. ……But more importantly, 5 years ago…

Cloud: 5 Years ago… Nibelheim?

Mysterious Voice: When you went to Mt. Nibel then, Tifa was your guide, right?

Cloud: Yeah… I was surprised.

Mysterious Voice: But where was Tifa other than that?

Cloud: …I dunno.

Mysterious Voice: It was a great chance for you two to see each other again.

Cloud: …You're right.

Mysterious Voice: Why couldn't you see each other alone?

Cloud: …I don't know. I can't remember clearly…

Mysterious Voice: Why don't you try asking Tifa?

Cloud: …Yeah.

Mysterious Voice: Then, get up!

Voice of Tifa: Hey wake up. Wake up, Cloud!

Cloud woke up.

Cloud: Tifa… When Sephiroth and I went to Nibelheim, where were you?

Tifa: …We saw each other, right?

Cloud: The other time.

Tifa: No…it was 5 years ago. I don't remember. But, something seems strange
outside. Cloud, come quick.

Cloud met up with his group and proceeds to the beach. Cloud’s group talks to
Priscilla.

Cloud: Are you all right now?

Priscilla: Umm…thanks for helping… I'm sorry, I mistook you for one of those
Shinra, Inc.…

Cloud: That's all right.

Priscilla: I'll give you something SPECIAL! It's an amulet. Take good care of
it, okay?

Cloud’s group received Shiva Materia.

Barret: What's that music? It sure sounds lively.

Priscilla: I heard that rehearsing the reception for the new Shinra president.

Barret: Rufus!? I gotta pay my respects.

Priscilla: Grandpa and grandma told me this beach was beautiful when they were
small. But after the Shinra built that city above, the sun stopped shining
here, and the water got polluted… I was raised on that story and hate Shinra so
much, I could die!

Aerith: You think Rufus is thinking about crossing the ocean from here, too?

Tifa: What? Does that mean Sephiroth already crossed the ocean?

Red XIII: Cloud, didn't you finish Rufus off?

Barret: We gotta get to the town up there… Mebbe we could climb the tower?

Priscilla: No! No! There's a high voltage current running underneath the tower.
Don't wander near it, it's dangerous! But…you might be able to if Mr. Dolphin
helps you. Follow me!

Tifa: High voltage tower…… I guess this means Cloud'll be all right.

Aeris: Yeah, better leave it to Cloud!

Red XIII: We're counting on you, Cloud!

Cloud: Hey!! Wait a second!

Cloud’s group scattered. Cloud met up with Priscilla on the beach.

Barret: Wait a minute.

Barret appeared at the scene.

Barret: Now ain't that something! I ain't never seen no Dolphin jump like that!

Priscilla: Pretty cool, huh? When I blow this whistle, Mr. Dolphin jumps for
me. Here!! This is for you, Cloud!

Cloud: A gift? What am I supposed to do with it!?

Priscilla: Just go into the water, blow this whistle and Mr. Dolphin'll jump
you to the top of the pole!

Cloud: Jump to the top of the pole?

Priscilla: See that rod sticking out at the top? If you jump just right, you
can climb to the top of the town.

Barret: Good luck Cloud! If you make it, we'll follow you! Whoa, I'll hold the
PHS for you. It'll break if it gets wet.

Cloud blows the whistle to call the dolphin and jump Cloud up to the pole.
Cloud climbed up the next area. We watch a movie of Cloud climbing to the Junon
Airport where he watches an airship. Cloud arrived the hallway with the locker
room.

Commander: Hey! You still dressed like that? Come're!

In the locker room…

Commander: Today's the big day when we welcome President Rufus! Hurry up and
change!

Cloud: (finds a uniform) It's the Shinra uniform. I'll change. Brings back
memories…

Cloud begins changing.

Commander: Quit yappin'! Hurry up!

Cloud: A Shinra uniform… I was so proud when I first put it on. I wonder when
it was… …I couldn't stand wearing this thing anymore.

After Cloud finishes chaning to the Shinra soldier uniform…

Commander: Wow! You look good in it! You remember the Greeting procedure,
right!? …the look on your face says you forgot. All right, I'll show you again!
Do just like we do.

Soldier 1: Commander!! We'll help too! This is how to do it!

Soldier 2: We'll sing too!

Commander: All right! Show 'em!!

Soldier 1: Now, march!! This's the Welcoming March!

Soldier 2: Then! I'll sing along with you! Quietly--!! Aaaaah! Aaaaah! Hey,
come on now. Now!

The soldiers began to sing and march. After Cloud remembers the Welcoming March
performance…

Commander: Good! Make sure you do well at the real parade!

Soldier 3: Rufus has arrived! Preparation completed!

Commander: All right, show time! Don't disgrace yourselves!

Cloud and all the soldiers went outside. We watch a movie of a view of the
Junon cannon.

Commander: Oh…no…!! No one's here! Late---!? Hey, Rookie! It's because you're
running around like that!!

Soldier 1: Captain!! We'll take a short cut!

Commander: Right! Good idea. Get over here!!

Cloud and everyone approaches the shortcut.

Commander: All right! You first!

Soldier 1 showed Cloud how to sneak in as they march.

Commander: Now listen up! This parade's gonna be broadcast live on Shinra TV,
around the world! If you look bad, the whole Junon army will look bad. Remember
that and don't screw up! OK! Jump in when I give you the sign! Just sneak in
from the back! Don't mess up the row! And no matter what you do don't try to go
in from the front! All right!! Start Marching!! Now 1 2 3 4!

Cloud sneaked in and marched in with the soldiers.

TV Producer: What the hell was that soldier doing?

AD: I don't know.

TV Producer: Are the points up?

AD: Well, it's so-so.

TV Producer: Hmm… Better send that soldier something.

Cloud received 6 Potions. Later, Cloud and the soldiers lines up.

Commander: Good! We made it.

Soldier: Oh! President Rufus!

Commander: Hey! Line up and shut up! (to Cloud) Don't make a move!

Rufus: How's the job? What happened to the Airship?

Heidegger: The long range airship is still being prepared. It should be ready
in about three more days. Gya haa haa!

Rufus: Even the Air Force's Gelnika?

Heidegger: ……Gya haa haa!

Rufus: Stop that stupid horse laugh. Things are different than when father was
in charge.

Heidegger: Gya…

Rufus: Is the ship ready?

Heidegger: Yes sir, we'll get it ready quickly.

Rufus and Heidegger take the elevator up. After that…

Soldier 1: What a disaster.

Soldier 2: Heidegger was really irritated…

Soldier 3: The man in the Black Cape's been roaming the city, but we can't find
him.

Cloud: Man in a Black Cape?

Soldier 3: He showed up two or three says ago, and killed a few of our soldiers.

Soldier 4: He disappeared right after that. There's a rumor going around that
it was Sephiroth.

Commander: Attention! Dismissed! (to Cloud) Hey! Hey you! You messing with the
army?

Cloud: Who cares?

Commander: You're too lazy!! No break for you!! Get over here!

Later, in the locker room…

Commander: This is the military, soldier!! Your orders for today are to send
off President Rufus at the dock! I'll keep drilling you until it's time!

Soldier 1: I'll help, sir!

Soldier 2: Me too, sir!

Commander: All right!! Line up in order and show me your final pose! Today's
command is Formation. Remember it! Ready!? Junon Military Send Off, BEGIN!

The soldiers perform the send-off. After that.

Commander: All right! (to Cloud) Now you try it!

Cloud performs the send-off with the soldiers. After that…

Soldier: Commander!! What's today's special pose?

Commander: Huh? …I haven't decided yet. All right, rookie!! I'll let you
decide! Show me your best move!

Cloud: Let's see… My best move is…

Cloud performed his own traditional victory with his rifle.

Soldier 1: Woo----ow!

Soldier 2: That's awesome!

Commander: All right!! We'll go with that as today's special!! Practice it!

Soldier 1 & 2: Yes sir!!

Commander: Well then! Meet at the dock!! Don't be late!! Attention! Dismissed!!

Cloud met up with the soldiers and the commander at the dock. Upon arriving at
the dock…

Commander: All right, it's time! Ten… HUT!

Soldier near the door: President Rufus…has now arrived!

Commander: This is it!! Junon Military Reception--! Do it right---, do it with
enthusiasm…! Ready…!

Cloud and the two soldiers perform the send-off. After that…

Rufus: Well done. Keep up the good work for Shinra, Inc.

Heidegger approaches Cloud.

Heidegger: Gya haa ha…!! Here's a special bonus for you!! A token of the
President's kindness! Don't forget it!

Cloud received Force Stealer.

Rufus: Once the world gets out that Sephiroth's here, Cloud and his friends
will show up, too.

Heidegger: We'll crush them as soon as we find them!

Rufus: We can't have them get in our way.

Heidegger: Leave it up to me, sir! Gya haa haa!

Rufus: I thought I told you to stop that stupid laugh…

Heidegger: Gya……

Heidegger attacked the soldiers.

Commander: All right! Dismissed!

Rufus and Heidegger left the scene.

Soldier 1: That was close.

Soldier 2: Heidegger's been really edgy lately. Because Hojo disappeared
leaving a letter of resignation.

Soldier 1: Heidegger's been forced to take care of that investigation, too.

Commander: Hey--! I thought you were dismissed! We got something to do! Hurry
up!

Cloud boards the ship and the ship takes off.

Cloud: We'll cross the ocean, to the new continent. …even if we are wearing
Shinra's uniforms…

Cloud talks to Yuffie.

Yuffie: Urrrgh… This is why…I hate ships. Hey, Cloud. You have any
'Tranquilizers'?

Cloud: Nope.

Yuffie: …unless it's an emergency get away from me. Where are the others? I
dunno. Aren't they hiding somewhere around here? How should I know…? Ugh……urk……

Cloud talks to Aerith.

Aerith: Umm…… It's me Aerith. Hey, Cloud. Did you see the Airship at Junon?

Cloud: …I heard it was big, but I didn't expect it to be THAT big.

Aerith: That was really something. Hey, do you think I could get on it?

Cloud: I dunno… …keep hoping.

Aerith: Wow! I'm really looking forward to it!

Cloud talks to Tifa.

Tifa: Yes sir! Everything quiet, sir! …But, you know what? I really hate 'em
all. They take away all the things and people you love…I wish they'd all
disappear. Right, Cloud?

Cloud: Yeah……

Tifa: You're right! Uh, yes sir, I'll continue my watch sir! Hee hee…

Cloud talks to Red XIII.

Red XIII: …… ……It's me. Red XIII. I'm a little woozy, but I shouldn't get
caught. Humans only look at appearances anyway. Anyway you look at it, I'd say
I make a fine human being.

Cloud talks to Aerith and asked him where Barret is. After that, Cloud finds
Barret outside. Cloud talks to Barret.

Barret: Look, Cloud. It's Rufus and Heidegger. They're this close but we can't
do a thing to 'em… Ummmm…… Gmmmmmm.… How can he… Goin' off laughin' like that?
Because of him, Biggs…… Wedge…… Jessie……! Ggggggggh… Ggggh……! Ggggggghhh!! God!
I can't take it anymore! I'm gonna settle things here and now……

Radio: Emergency alert! Reports of a suspicious character found! Those not on
detail, search the ship. Report when found! I repeat. Suspicious character
found on board! Those not on detail, search the ship. Report when found!

Barret: Damn, did they find us!? Hey, that don't seem like us. Do they
mean…Tifa and the others!? Get off your spikey butt and let's go, Cloud!

Cloud met up with his group.

Tifa: Everyone all right!?

Barret: You all right!?

Aerith: Huh?

Tifa: Everyone's here…right?

Barret: Hey, wait. You don't think that suspicious character is… Sephiroth!?

Tifa: Really!?

Barret: How the hell am I supposed to know!?

Cloud: …Let's find out.

Red XIII: It's the most logical thing to do. Then, who's going to go?

Yuffie: N, not me… I don't even like Sephiroth anyway. And besid……ugh……urk……

Cloud chose Barret and Tifa to go and investigate.

Cloud: …… Sephiroth…… ……All right, let's go!

Cloud’s group witness the soldiers corpse in engine room. Cloud’s group
proceeds to the cargo hold.

Cloud: Is it…… Sephiroth?

The soldier falls to the floor and dies at the scene.

Cloud: No…not Sephiroth!

Mysterious Voice: ……After a long sleep… …the time…… …time has……come…

Barret: Look, Cloud!

Cloud: Sephiroth! You're alive!

Sephiroth: ……Who are you?

Cloud: You don't remember me!? I'm Cloud!

Sephiroth: Cloud…

Cloud: Sephiroth! What are you thinking!? What are you doing!?

Sephiroth: …the time……is now…

Sephiroth vanishes from the scene and Jenova-BIRTH appeared at the scene.
Cloud's group fights Jenova-BIRTH. After Cloud’s group defeats Jenova-BIRTH…

Tifa: I've seen this somewhere…before.

Cloud: …Jenova. You mean he's been walkin' around with that thing?

The body part from Jenova-BIRTH disappeared and turned into the Materia.
Cloud’s group picked up the item.

Cloud: So it WAS Sephiroth.

Tifa: He said something about it being time for something.

Cloud: ……Time…is now?

Barret: I don't know WHAT the hell's goin' on! Cloud, why don't you explain to
me what's happened so far?

Cloud: …I'll try, but don't interrupt me while I'm explaining. Sephiroth went
off searching for the Promised Land, so he could become the ruler of the
planet… That was 5 years ago. Then Sephiroth came back and killed President
Shinra. And then just now all of us saw Sephiroth. He was carrying Jenova with
him. …This much I do know. He told me he wants to go to the Promised Land with
his mother, Jenova. …I guess that's about it.

Announcer: Dock workers-- We will be docking in Costa Del Sol in 5 minutes.
Prepare for docking.

Barret: Whoa! We'd best hurry and hide somewhere.

Cloud: (to himself) Sephiroth…is alive… The Promised Land… Does it really
exist…?

Later, Cloud met up with his group at the dock.

Barret: Damn! Sure is hot here! But I sure feel better now that I can say
good-bye to this sailor suit. Yo listen up!! Y'all be sure to mingle like
regular folks here!

Aerith: Oh, too bad. I liked Barret's sailor suit. He looked so cute.

Barret: ……What'ya mean "cute"?

Tifa: Right…well, uh…Barret, why don't you use that sailor suit for pajamas?
Right, Cloud?

Cloud: Keep your mind on Sephiroth. Remember, this isn't a vacation. We're here
after Sephiroth. I'm going on ahead.

Barret: Hmmph, Cloud. You're the one, who's always hangin' around wastin' time.
I'm going to skip this resort!

Red XIII: …puff…puff… Would you kindly hurry? The heat is drying my nose.

Yuffie: Yeah, mine, too!!

Cloud: All right. We'll take a break and then head off. Don't wander too far
off.

Red XIII: It looks like my mane got messed up. I'm going to rest somewhere cool.

Yuffie: Don't bother looking for me!

Aerith: Maybe I should get a tan for a change. Which do you like, Cloud?

Cloud: I like fair complexions.

Aerith: Got it. I'll remember that.

Later, the camera shows Rufus and Heidegger getting off the ship.

Sailor: What a long boat ride that was!!

Rufus: Hmmm…… Good work everyone……

Heidegger: Gya, heh, heh…, ha!! Hurry up with that!

Sailor: Yes, sir!!

Rufus: I heard Sephiroth was on board.

Heidegger: ……Yes.

Rufus: And it seems Cloud and the others were on board, too.

Heidegger: ……Yes.

Rufus: (disappointed with Heidegger) They all slipped through…… You messed up
big this time, Heidegger.

Heidegger: I'm ashamed of myself.

Rufus: Is that all you can do…? Give one-word answers and apologize for
everything?

Sailor: Ready for departure, sir!!

Rufus: (to Heidegger) ……Do something. I'll be expecting results.

Pissed off, Heidegger attacked and threw some sailors off the dock. The Shinra
Helicopter left without him. Later Cloud’s group approaches the beach where
they saw Hojo.

Aerith: Oh! Cloud!!

Tifa: Look, look at that!

Cloud: Hm…? Who, Hojo…? Is that man over there, Hojo?

Tifa: Go over and talk to him.

Woman: God!! What do you want?

Cloud: I want to talk with that man.

Woman: (Hey, who do you think you are?) Professor Hojo. That scary man says he
wants to talk with you.

Hojo: I'm busy right now.

Woman: ……But. Too bad.

Hojo: No, I remember you all now…… Yes, yes. I remembered now. It's been a long
time, Cloud.

Cloud: Hojo……

Hojo: Sometimes you just gotta do something like this.

Cloud: ……What are you doing?

Hojo: It should be obvious, I'm getting a tan.

Cloud: Answer me!

Hojo: Hmm! I believe we're both after the same goal.

Cloud: You mean Sephiroth?

Hojo: Did you see him? I see…… Ha! Ha!

Cloud: What is it?

Hojo: Nothing. I just remembered a certain hypothesis…… Haven't you ever had
the feeling something is calling you? Or that you had to visit some place? ……

Cloud: I'll go anywhere Sephiroth is at! To beat him and put an end to all this!

Hojo: I see…… This could be interesting. Were you in SOLDIER? ……Heh heh heh!
Would you like to be my guinea pig?

Cloud angrily draws his sword.

Hojo: Oh, now what? Are you going to draw your sword?

Tifa: Stop, Cloud! I know how you feel, but you mustn't.

Hojo: Ha! Ha! Ha! (to Aerith) ……Say aren't you the 'Ancient'?

Aerith: I'm Aerith. The least you can do is something, Professor Hojo… I know
I'm an Ancient. My mother told me.

Hojo: Your mother? Oh, you mean Infalna. How is she?

Aerith: You didn't know!? She died.

Hojo: ……I see.

Aerith: Professor Hojo… Is Jenova an Ancient? Is Sephiroth an Ancient? Do we
all have the same blood?

Hojo: ……mumble…mumble…head west……

Aerith: He's mumbling slowly... That must means he's hiding something!

Hojo: ………………

Tifa: Hey! Answer us!!

Cloud: It's no use. It's no go.

Cloud’s group proceeds to Mt. Corel. Upon arrival, Cloud’s group talks to a man.

Man: Whew!! Hey! You're actually talking to me.

Cloud: What is it?

Man: I just passed a guy in a black cloak back there. I just tried to tell him
that it's dangerous up ahead, and he ignored me!

Cloud: Sephiroth…

Tifa: Let's hurry on.

Barret: …………ahh.

Cloud's group proceeds to North Corel. Upon arrival…

Citizen 1: You, you're… Hey!! He's back!

Barret: (to Cloud) Wait here…

Barret approaches the citizen and the citizen punched him.

Citizen 1: Well, lookey here! Never thought I'd ever see your face again. Those
people over there, they with you? Well, I feel sorry for 'em! Hangin' around a
walkin' death sentence like Barret.

Citizen 2: You got a lot of balls comin' back here! Look at this place! It's
all your fault North Corel turned into a garbage heap!

Citizen 1: Why doncha say something!? Or did ya forget what you done here
already?

Barret: …I'm sorry…

Citizen 2: #$%^! You ain't even worth the effort.

Citizen 1: Don't waste time talkin' to that Techno-freak!

Barret: (to Cloud and Tifa) You heard 'em… It's my fault this town
was…destroyed…

Cloud's group proceeds to the Ropeway Station. Cloud's group met up with the
other party members.

Aerith: Barret, what happened?

Barret: Sorry.

Cloud: What happened?

Barret: My hometown used to be around here.

Red XIII: What do you mean 'used to'?

Barret: It ain't here no more. Heard it got buried…in just 4 years.

Aerith: But how could those people say those terrible things?

Barret: An' it's my fault. ALL my fault.

In Barret's memory he began to talk about his hometown. In the house with
Barret, Dyne, and the citizens…

Village Headman: What are we going to do? The only one against this is Dyne...

Dyne: I am definitely against it, no matter what. There's nothing to talk about
if you're thinking of throwing away our coal! Our coal's been protected for
generations. Our fathers, and theirs before them, risked their lives for it. We
have no right to throw it all away so easily!

Barret: But listen, Dyne. No one uses coal nowadays. It's the sign of the times.

Scarlet: Right, everything is Mako, now. It'll be all right, Dyne. Shinra, Inc.
will guarantee your livelihood once the Mako Reactor is completed.

Barret: Listen, Dyne. I don't want my wife, Myrna, to suffer anymore.

Dyne: I know how you feel! I feel the same way too, damn it! But even so, I
won't give away our coal mines!

Village Headman: Dyne…you've got to understand.

Barret then tells Cloud and the group that Corel was burned by the Shinra
troops and lots of people died. The memory ended.

Cloud: Shinra troops? What for!?

Barret: There was an explosion at a reactor. Shinra blamed the accident on the
people. Said it was done by a rebel faction.

Tifa: That's so terrible!

Barret: Well, I guess that's true. But more than Shinra, I couldn't forgive
myself. Never should've gone along with the building of the reactor…

Tifa: Don't blame yourself. We were all fooled by the promises Shinra made back
then.

Barret: That's why…that's why I get so pissed off!! Not only did they take
advantage of me…… But I lost my wife, Myrna, too…

Man in booth: Hey everyone! If you want to go to the 'Gold Saucer', hurry and
get on!

Barret: Dyne was my best friend. We was close ever since we was kids…

Tifa: I never knew. Barret never said a thing…

Aerith: ………

Red XIII: ………

Yuffie: I'm not sympathizing with Barret! He never should have trusted Shinra,
Inc.…

Tifa: ………We better go on!

Cloud’s group boards the Ropeway tram. We watch a movie of the Gold Saucer and
the Ropeway moving into the Gold Saucer. Later they arrived at the Gold Saucer.

Aerith: Wow! Let's have fun! I know this isn't the right time to do this. Hey,
Barret, cheer up!

Barret: ……I ain't in no cheery mood. So jes' leave me alone.

Aerith: Really? That's too bad. Let's go!

Tifa: …whisper…whisper… (Wasn't that a little harsh, Aeris!?)

Aerith: …whisper…whisper… (Just act normal when this happens.)

Tifa: …whisper… (You think so…?)

Aerith: Of course! (to Barret) We're gonna play…

Barret: So PLAY! …messin' round %&*$#&! Don't forget we're after Sephiroth!

Barret ran away.

Aerith: …I think he's mad.

Tifa: He'll be fine. He seems to be doing a little better now.

Cloud talks to Tifa.

Tifa: We'd better be careful, Sephiroth might be around.

Cloud: Let's go together.

Cloud and Tifa go on. While Cloud and Tifa are having fun, they met the owner
of the Gold Saucer at the Speed Square.

Dio: Hey boy.

Cloud: Boy…

Dio: How is it? You having fun? Mmm, so, you ARE having fun. Well, good, good
for you boy.

Cloud: My name's Cloud. And stop calling me boy.

Dio: Mmm? Me? I'm the owner of the Gold Saucer. The name's Dio. Just call me
'Dio'.

Cloud: …… (Not even listening.)

Dio: By the way, boy, do you know what a 'Black Materia' is?

Cloud: What is it?

Dio: Ha ha ha……that, I say, that's a good one, boy! But it's not good to lie.
You can't fool me.

Cloud: Why d'you ask me?

Dio: Well, a while back, a boy your age came in and asked me if I had a 'Black
Materia'. I thought you might know who he was, seein' as how you're both about
the same age.

Cloud: Did he happen to have…a Black Cape…

Dio: Why yes, yes indeed. And a tattoo on his hand that said '1'.

Cloud: Where did he go!?

Dio: Ha ha ha, I have no idea. Well then. I say, stop by the Battle Arena if
you like, boy. You'll probably like it. Many of my collections are on display
there. Ha ha ha.

Dio left. Cloud also met a 3' 2" feet cat standing on a Moogle at the Wonder
Square.

The Cat on a Moogle: Hey you!! What're you lookin' so down for!? How 'bout it?
Want me to read your fortune!? A bright future! A happy future! Oh, but don't
hold it against me if it's not a great prediction! Oh, so sorry! I'm a fortune
telling machine. The name's…Cait Sith.

Cloud: You can only read the fortune?

Cait Sith: You kidding!? I can find missing things, missing people, anything!

Cloud: Then can you tell me where a man named Sephiroth is?

Cait Sith: Sephiroth, right!? Okay, here goes!!

Cait Sith performs his shuffle.

Cloud: (reading the fortune) …Ordinary luck. It will be an active fortune. Give
into the good will of others, and something big'll happen after summer. (to
Cait Sith) …what…what's this?

Cait Sith: Huh? Let me try again.

Cait Sith performs his shuffle again.

Cloud: (reading the fortune) Be careful of forgetfulness. Your lucky color is
…blue? (to Cait Sith) …Forget it.

Cait Sith: Wait, wait give me another chance! Wait! Let me try it again!

Cait Sith self shuffles again for the third time.

Cloud: …What the!?

Tifa: What does it say?

Cloud: (reading the fortune) What you pursue will be yours. But you will lose
something dear.

Cait Sith: I don't know if it's good OR bad… This's the first time I ever got
something like THIS. Then shall we?

Tifa: Excuse me?

Cait Sith: As a fortune teller, I can't help but think about this. If I don't
see what it leads to, I won't be able to relax. That's why I'm going with you!

Tifa: Is it all right, Cloud?

Cait Sith: I'm comin' with you no matter WHAT you say!

Cloud: H…hey!

The cat on a Moogle will be known as Cait Sith from this point on.  Cloud’s
group proceeds to the Battle Square. Upon arrival near the entrance…

Cloud: !!

The Shinra soldier falls to the floor and dies at the scene.

Cloud: Mm!? Dead……

Tifa: What!? Wa…wait Cloud!

Cloud’s group went inside the Battle Arena and witnesses some corpse.

Cloud: Did Sephiroth do this!? No…it's not him… They're all shot… Sephiroth
would never use a gun…

Wounded Staff: Ugh, ugggh.

Cloud: Hey, what happened!

Wounded Staff: Ugh…ugh…a man with a gun…on his arm……

Tifa: A gun on his arm!?

Dio: Hold it right there! And stay quiet!! Did you guys do this!?

Cloud: N…no, it wasn't us!

Dio: I must've been wrong…

Cait Sith: (to Cloud and Tifa) Hurry and run, it's gonna get ugly.

Cloud: Hey!

Dio: Hold them!!

Cloud's group attempts to run, but got trapped.

Dio: That's as far as you go.

Cloud: Wait, listen to…

Cait Sith: Cloud…

Robots appeared at the scene. Later…

Dio: One more to go.

Security Guard: Yes.

Cloud: Hey! Pay attention!!

Dio: There's no need to listen. Pay for your crime down below! (to the cop) Do
it!

Security Guard: Yes.

The robots send Cloud's group into Corel Prison. Later in Corel Prison…

Tifa: Are you all right?

Cloud: Where are we?

Cait Sith: A desert prison… Corel Prison…

Cloud: A desert prison?

Cait Sith: Yup, a natural prison in the middle of the desert…surrounded
entirely by quicksand. I heard that once you get in, you never get out… But,
there was one special exception…

Cloud’s group met up with Barret.

Tifa: Barret!?

Cloud: Barret… Did he really……

Barret: Stay back! This's something I gotta deal with. Jes' leave me alone…

Barret left the scene.

Cait Sith: Whew! That's one of your friends? He sure looks dangerous…

Tifa: …Barret……

Cloud's group follow Barret to a house.

Barret: Didn't I tell you not to come here!?

Cait Sith: Ju……just hold on for a second! We just want to talk! You'll
understand if you just hear us out!

Barret aims his gun-arm and fired at a hiding prisoner. The prisoner died at
the scene.

Barret: Didn't want none of ya to get involved…

Cloud’s other group arrived at the scene.

Aerith: Hey that's Cloud's line! …It's too dangerous, I can't let you get
involved…'blah, blah blah…

Tifa: Yeah. We're already involved in this.

Aerith: We saw you and hurried here. Barret, just tell us what's going on.

Barret: You guys…

Red XIII: I heard that the murders at the Battle Arena were done by a man with
a gun-arm. …Was that you?

Barret: There's another…another man that got a gun grafted inta one of his
arms. It was four years ago…

In Barret's memory, he talks about when he and Dyne came back from the trip,
there was an incident at North Corel. Barret appeared at the scene.

Old Man: Barret! Dyne! Come quick! The village's being attacked! It's Shinra
soldiers!

Barret: What!!!? What the hell happened?……

Barret got angered.

Dyne: Hey, Barret! It's not over yet! Everyone's waiting! Let's go back to the
village!

One of the Shinra soldier shot and killed the old man.

Barret: Hmp!! Old man!!

Dyne: C'mon, Barret! We gotta hurry!

Barret: Krggh!!

Soldiers kept shooting at Barret as he dodges the bullets.

Scarlet: Kyaa haa, ha!! You can shoot all day and never hit them with aim like
that.

Barret: Shu'up!!

Scarlet knocked down a soldier who is continuously shooting at Barret.

Scarlet: Haa, ha, ha!! Stop playing around and cover me!

Dyne: Watch out!!

One of the Shinra soldier opened fire at Dyne, narrowly missing the shot. Just
as Dyne was about to fall, Barret grabbed Dyne’s left arm.

Barret: (grabbed on to Dyne's left arm) Dyne!! Hang on!! Listen to me!! You're
comin' back to the village, hear!!?

Dyne: Yeah… I ain't lettin' go… You're comin' back… Everyone's waitin' for ya…
Eleanor…and Marlene… They all waitin' on us…

We watch a movie of the Shinra soldier's continuously firing and shot Barret
and Dyne's arm off. Dyne fell of a cliff. The memory ended.

Barret: From then on, I couldn't use my right arm no more. …I was depressed for
a while. But then I threw away my artificial arm and got this gun grafted in.
Got a new right arm to get revenge on the Shinra, who took everything away…
Back then, I heard the doc say there was another man who got the same operation
as me. But, his was the left arm.

Cloud: ……

Aerith: But… Dyne's injury was the same as yours, right?

Tifa: Yeah, that's right. He was deceived by the Shinra, too. He'll probably
join us to fight against the Shinra.

Barret: …wouldn't bet on it. I gotta 'pologize to Dyne before I can rest in
peace. An' that's why, I gotta go alone.

Cloud: Do whatever you want… Is that what you want to hear? Well, I can't let
you do it. Because, if you die on me, I'm gonna have nightmares.

Aerith: Barret, this isn't the end.

Tifa: Weren't you going to save the Planet?

Barret: Shit! Tifa, you oughtta know by now.

Tifa: …That's all right. I'm not so different from you.

Aerith: That's easier to understand. It's you, Barret.

Cloud: So there it is, Barret. So I guess it'll be Barret, me, and…

Cloud included Tifa. Later, Cloud's group proceeds to the area with Dyne with a
mechanical left arm gun.

Barret: …Dyne… Is that you?

Dyne: Now that's a voice I haven't heard in years… A voice I'll never forget…

Barret: I always hoped I'd be able to see you again someday… I knew you were
alive somewhere…we had the same operation.

Dyne opened fire at Barret.

Dyne: What's that? ……I hear her voice.

Barret: ……?

Dyne: I hear her voice, Eleanor's voice. Begging me…not to hate your rotten
guts. That's why I didn't hunt you down…

Barret: …I know I was stupid. I'm not asking you to forgive me. But… What're
you doin' in a place like this? Why ya wanna kill those that ain't even
involved? Why?

Dyne: …Why!? The hell do you care for!? Are the people killed going to
understand 'why'? Are the people of Corel going to understand just hearing
Shinra's excuses? I don't CARE what the reason is! All they give us are
artillery and stupid excuses… What's left is a world of despair and emptiness…

Barret: ……

Dyne: You still want to hear 'why'? …All right, I'll tell you. 'Cause I want to
destroy everything. The people of this city. This city itself. The whole world!
I got nothing left in this world. Corel, Eleanor…… Marlene……

Barret: Dyne, Marlene…… Marlene's still alive.

Dyne: ……?

Barret: I went back into town. I thought she was gone for sure. That is why I
wanted to be by her side till the end. That's when I found her…found Marlene.

Dyne: …

Barret: She's in Midgar. Let's go see her together, all right?

Dyne: So……she's still alive… All right, Barret. I guess that means you and I
gotta fight.

Barret: what!?

Dyne: Eleanor's alone all by herself. I've got to take Marlene to her.

Barret: Dyne…are you insane!?

Dyne: Marlene wants to see her Mom, don't she?

Dyne opens fire at Barret.

Barret: Stop, Dyne! I can't die yet!

Dyne: Oh yeah? Well my life's been over ever since then.

Dyne opens fire at Barret again.

Barret: Stop it! I don't wanna fight you!

Cloud: Barret!

Barret: Cloud, you stay the hell out of it! This is MY problem!!

Barret fights Dyne.

Dyne: Urgh!

After Barret defeats Dyne, Barret attempts to approach Dyne.

Dyne: Back!! …it wasn't just my arm……back then……I lost something irreplaceable.
I don't know where I went wrong…

Barret: Dyne… I don't know either, man. Is this the only way…we can resolve
this?

Dyne: I told you… I… I want to destroy everything… Everything… This
crazy world… Even me…

Barret: An' what 'bout Marlene? What's gonna happen to her!?

Dyne: …Think about it… Barret… How old was Marlene back then…? Even if I did go
to her now…she wouldn't even know me… And what's more…Barret… These hands are a
little too stained to carry Marlene anymore…

Barret: ……

Dyne: Barret… Give that pendant to Marlene… It was… Eleanor's…my wife's memento…

Dyne tossed a pendant to Barret.

Barret: All right…

Dyne: …wow… Marlene's…already…… 4.…… Barret… Don't……make…… Don't ever make
Marlene…… cry…

Barret: Dyne? Dyne!

Dyne approaches the cliff and intentionally falls into the chasm.

Barret: Dy-----ne!! …Dyne. Me an' you were the same… My hands ain't any
cleaner…… I shouldn't be able to carry… Marlene either… Uuuurrrrrrgghh!!

Later, Cloud's group proceeds to the truck and talks to Mr. Coates.

Mr. Coates: You want somethin'?

Barret: I want to go up.

Mr. Coates: Like I told you before, you gotta get the Boss' permission, then
win the Chocobo……

Barret: Dyne's got his reasons an' can't speak. So, I got this, instead.

Barret shows Mr. Coates the pendant.

Mr. Coates: Yeah, bull--!

Barret: I want to go up.

Mr. Coates: R, right. Did you kill Dyne? You must've. Or you'd never be holding
that thing. …So Dyne's dead… Maybe now, the place'll calm down a little. Dyne
didn't care who anyone was……

Barret: (grabbing Mr. Coates) The hell do YOU know!!

Mr. Coates: R…ri……right! I mean, no, I DON'T know anything. S, s…sorry.

Cloud: Then, will you get us outta here?

Mr. Coates: Huh? Oh man, you guys are mistaken. I already told you, there's
only one way to get outta here. That's to win the Chocobo Race and that's held
up there, in the Gold Saucer. And, only one racer can go up at a time.

Barret: (grabbing Mr. Coates again) Say what!?

Mr. Coates: Noooo! Really, even if you threaten me!! A rule is a rule. I can't
change it. If I do, the whole system down here'll get messed up!! An' I can't
do that! Okay, ok I'll let one go up there. After that, he's gotta deal with
Dio.

Barret: Awright then. (to Cloud) Cloud, you go. We'll wait down here. Hurry up
an' win that Chocobo Race, an' get us outta here!

Tifa: Right, Cloud. We'll be waiting and rooting for you.

Mr. Coates: Have you decided? All you need now is a manager. …and register and
get a Chocobo…

Voice of Ester: Hi…… I happened to hear your story.

Mr. Coates: Ester?

Ester: (to Cloud) I'll be your manager.

Mr. Coates: Well, I have nothing against it, but… This is Ester. She may look
kinda funny… But there's no better manager in the races…

Ester: (offended) That's so rude… (to Cloud) Yeah, well. Nice to meet you,
Cloud.

Mr. Coates: All right then, Cloud. I'll send you up the elevator. Ester'll fill
you in on the details.

Cloud takes the elevator up. In the Chocobo Racing Arena…

Ester: Hmm, so that's what happened. I'll talk to Dio directly. You just
concentrate on the race. Oh yeah, getting back to the other thing, there are
many different types of Chocobo jockeys. It's not only for criminals. Some
people compete for fame, some people compete for the money, some only for
glory… And then there're people like you. Oh yeah, I'll teach you how to ride a
Chocobo.

Ester told Cloud how to ride Chocobo. After that, Cloud got to the Chocobo Race
floor.

Jockey: (to Cloud) You new?

Ester: Hi, Joe.

Joe: Hey, Ester you're looking pretty as usual.

Ester: Thanks. Let me introduce you, Cloud. This is Joe, one of the top Chocobo
Jockeys.

Joe: Nice to meet you, Cloud. If you're with Ester, then…

Ester: Right! He's an up and coming jockey. He's only been down here for a day
and already made it up here!!

Joe: What!? Oh, I see… So what did you do down there? Sorry…you're not supposed
to ask about the past here… Pretty interesting… I have a feeling that we'll
meet again. Then, until we meet again, Cloud.

Ester: (to Cloud) I'm going to check on the Chocobo. You just wait here for a
while.

While Cloud's waiting…

Ester: Cloud. Thanks for waiting. I registered you in the next race. This is a
Chocobo I prepared myself. He won't lose easily. Oh yeah… You know how to ride
one?

Cloud: Yeah, I got it.

Ester: Then, good luck.

Cloud begins the Chocobo race. After Cloud successfully reached the finish line
in first place.

Ester: Congratulations!! Now you're home free! Oh yeah, the owner told me to
give you this letter to you when you won.

Cloud: (reading Dio's letter) Boy, if you're reading this letter, then you
must've won. And won a victory that I am sure you earned. I heard Dyne from
Ester. Now that you are victorious, I promise that you and all your friends
will get a full pardon, and you all will be set free. And also, by way of
apology. I prepared a little gift for you to use on your journey. Sorry I
couldn't be there to tell you this in person, but I'm a very busy man.
Sincerely, Dio. (to himself) A gift?

Cloud picked up the PHS after ringing.

Aerith: Cloud, isn't this great!? The assistant manager just stopped by and
dropped off a 'buggy' for you! Now you can go over 'deserts' and 'rivers' no
problem. OK, Cloud. I'll be waiting outside.

Aerith hung up.

Cloud: Hmm? The letter continues… (reading the letter) P. S. I just recently
met Sephiroth. He must have a lot of fans with boys your age. Why don't you get
his autographs? It seems he's headed toward the South of the river, towards
Gongaga. (to himself) Sephiroth…

Ester: I guess this is goodbye. Yeah. Well, if you ever get your own Race
Chocobo, come back again. I'll take care of your registration and everything.
I'll see you again.

Cloud later met up with his group and boards the Buggy. They drove out of Corel
Prison and proceeds to Gongaga. Upon arrival…

Cloud: (to himself) …Is someone there?

Reno: Hey, Rude. Who do you like? What are you getting so embarrassed about?
Come on? Who do you like?

Rude: ………Tifa.

Reno: Hmmmm... That's a tough one. But, poor Elena. She...... you......

Rude: No, she likes Tseng.

Reno: I never knew that! But Tseng likes that Ancient...

Cloud: What are they talking about?

Elena: It's so stupid! They always talk about who they like or don't like. But
Tseng is different. Ah! Oh no! They're here! They're really here!

Reno: Hmm... Then it's time... Rude... Don't go easy on them even though
they're girls.

Rude: ...Don't worry, I'll do my job.

Elena: Then, we're counting on you. I'll report to Tseng!

Reno: (to Cloud) It's been a while. Payback time for what you did in Sector 7.

Cloud: Out of our way.

Reno: I don't like being taken for a fool.

Rude: That's as far as you go.

Cloud’s group fights Reno and Rude. After Cloud’s group defeats Reno and Rude…

Reno: We may be retreating, but... we're still victorious.

Rude: ..................

Reno and Rude ran away. After that...

Tifa: Hey, something seems wrong, like they knew we were coming.

Cloud: They followed us...... But there weren't any signs of it. Then, that
means......

Barret: A spy, maybe? No, no way.

Cloud: I don't even want to think that there's a spy... I trust everyone.

Later when Cloud's group arrived at Gongaga Village.

Cloud: A ruined reactor.

Cloud checked it out. A Shinra Helicopter came.

Cloud: It's Scarlet, Head of Shinra Weapon Development.

Cloud's group hides.

Scarlet: ......Hmph! This isn't any good either. You only get junky materia
from junky reactors. This reactor's a failure. What I'm looking for is big,
large, huge materia. You seen any?

Tseng: ...No I haven't seen it. I'll get on it right away.

Scarlet: With Hojo gone, the Weapon Development's been getting a bigger budget.

Tseng: I envy them.

Scarlet: But, even if we make the perfect weapon, could that stupid Heidegger
even use it?

Tseng: ......

Scarlet: Oh... sorry! I forgot Heidegger was your boss! Ha ha ha!

Tseng: ......

Scarlet: Let's go!

Cloud: (to himself) Big, large, huge materia? An ultimate weapon? The perfect
weapon? Just what are the Shinra up to...?

The Shinra Helicopter flew away and Cloud can now get out of Gongaga and he
drove his Buggy to Cosmo Canyon where they have a breakdown on their Buggy.
Cloud replaces Tifa with Red XIII with the PHS. Later at Cosmo Canyon...

Red XIII: I am home! It is I , Nanaki!

Guard: Hey, Nanaki! You're safe! Come on, and say hello to Bugenhagen!

Cloud: ...Nanaki?

Guard: Welcome to Cosmo Canyon. Are you familiar with this land?

Cloud: No.

Guard: Let me explain. People from all over the world gather here to seek the
Study of Planet Life.

Barret: Wooooooooo! I always wanted to come here!

Guard: It's full capacity at present, so I'm afraid I can't let you enter.

Red XIII: They helped me some when I was on the road. Please let them in.

Guard: ...Oh, is that so? You helped our Nanaki? Please, come in.

Cloud: Who is Nanaki?

Guard: Nanaki is Nanaki. That's his name.

Cloud dialed the PHS and called Tifa back to his group.

Red XIII: Here is where I was... I mean, ...this is my hometown. My tribe were
protectors of those who appreciate this beautiful canyon and the Planet. My
brave mother fought and died here, but my cowardly father left her...... I am
the last of my race.

Cloud: Cowardly father?

Red XIII: Yes. My father was a wastrel. And so the mission I inherited from my
ancestors, is to protect this place. My journey ends here.

Bugenhagen: Hey! Nanaki--! You're home!

Red XIII: Coming, Grandpa!

Barret: Good timin'. Let's take a breather. I got stuff I want to find out, too.

Cloud head to Bugenhagen's house solo.

Red XIII: Cloud, this is my grandfather, Bugen. He is incredible. He knows
everything.

Bugenhagen: Ho Ho Hoooo. I hear that you looked after Nanaki a bit. Nanaki is
still a child you see.

Red XIII: Please stop, grandfather. I'm 48.

Bugenhagen: Ho Ho Hoooo. Nanaki's tribe has incredible longevity. So you see
his 48 years would only be equivalent to say that of a 15 or 16 years old in
human reckoning.

Cloud: 15 or 16!?

Bugenhagen: He's quiet and very deep. You thought he was an adult?

Red XIII: ......grandfather. I want to be an adult. I want to grow up to be
able to protect you and the village.

Bugenhagen: Ho Ho Hoooo. No Nanaki. You can't stand on your own yet. To do that
now would destroy you in the long run. Reaching up into the heavens,
threatening to snatch the very stars from the great city of Midgar. You seen
it, haven't you? Well, that's a bad example. Looking up too much makes you lose
perspective. When it's time for this planet to die, you'll understand that you
know absolutely nothing.

Cloud: ......When the planet dies?

Bugenhagen: Ho Ho Hoooo. It may be tomorrow, or 100 years from now... But it's
not long off.

Cloud: How do you know this?

Bugenhagen: I hear the cries of the Planet.

Cloud: What's that?

Bugenhagen: The sound of the stars in the heavens. While this goes on, planets
are born, and die.

Cloud: What was that?

Bugenhagen: Ho Ho Hoooo. That was a scream from this planet. Didn't you hear
it? As if to say... I hurt, I suffer......

Red XIII: They have come here on a journey to save the planet. Why don't you
show them your apparatus?

Bugenhagen: Ho Ho Hoooo. To save the planet? Ho Ho Hoooo! But, then again, I
guess it wouldn't hurt to show him.

Man: Bugenhagen! Several odd looking people have come.

Bugenhagen: The whole place has gotten busy all of a sudden.

Red XIII: He brought friends too. I'll go get them. Cloud, please call one of
them. Only three people can fit in grandfather's machine.

Cloud called Barret and Tifa to come with him. Later back at Bugenhagen's house.

Bugenhagen: Here, over here. The door's unlocked, come on in. Ho Ho Hoooo. It
look like you have them all together. Then let's begin. I'll be standing there.

They all go up to the experiment.

Bugenhagen: Hmm, yes pretty good. This is my laboratory. All the workings of
space are entered into this 3D Holographic System.

Tifa: Look, look! A shooting star!

We watch a movie of the shooting stars and the planets of the Solar System.

Bugenhagen: Ho Ho Hoooo. Yes, it is something, isn't it? Well, let's get to the
subject. Eventually... all humans die. What happens to them after they die? The
body decomposes, and returns to the Planet. That much everyone knows. What
about their consciousness, their hearts and their souls? The soul too returns
to the Planet. And not only those of humans, but everything on this Planet. In
fact, all living things in the universe, are the same. The spirits that return
to the Planet, merge with one another and roam the Planet. They roam, converge,
and divide, becoming a swell, called the 'Lifestream'. Lifestream... In other
words, a path of energy of the souls roaming the Planet. 'Spirit Energy' is a
word that you should never forget. A new life... children are blessed with
Spirit energy and are brought into the world. Then, the time comes when they
die and once again return to the Planet... Of course there are exceptions, but
this is the way of the world. I've digressed, but you'll understand better if
you watch this.

We watch a movie of what Earth and the Lifestream together would look like.
Then Bugenhagen explains the Spirit energy, then the Earth shatters as what
Bugenhagen was talking about.

Bugenhagen: ......These are the basics of the Study of Planet Life.

Cloud: If the Spirit energy is lost, our Planet is destroyed...

Bugenhagen: Ho Ho Hoooo. Spirit energy is efficient BECAUSE it exists within'
nature. When Spirit energy is forcefully extracted, and manufactured, it can't
accomplish its true purpose.

Cloud: You're talking about Mako energy, right?

Bugenhagen: Everyday Mako reactors suck up Spirit energy, diminishing it.
Spirit energy gets compressed in the reactors and processed into Mako energy.
All living things are being used up and thrown away. In other words, Mako
energy will only destroy the Planet...

Cloud’s group goes down.

Bugenhagen: The story of the planets... and those who lived with them... You
want to know more? Then you must listen to the words of the elders.

Cloud met up with his folks at Cosmo Candle. Cloud talks to Barret.

Barret: Cosmo Canyon... This's where AVALANCHE was born... I promised my guys
someday... when we saved the planet from the Shinra, that we'd all go to Cosmo
Canyon and celebrate... Biggs... Wedge... Jessie... Now they're all gone...
died for the planet. Really? To save the planet? We all... we all hate the
Shinra... Do I even got to go on? Will they...... ...will they ever forgive me?
...Right now, I really don't know. But I know one thing. If there's anything I
can do, to save the planet... or the people livin' on it... Then I'm gonna do
it! I don't care if it's for justice or revenge, or whatever. I don't
care......let'em decide for 'emselves. Urrrrrgh! I'm gonna do it!! Again...
Again... AVALANCHE's born again!

Cloud talks to Yuffie.

Yuffie: What a boring place, just like I thought. I wanna go somewhere! Let's
go find some Materia!

Cloud talks to Cait Sith.

Cait Sith: I wonder how many years it's been... Gosh, it brings back
memories......

Cloud talks to Aeris.

Aerith: I learned a lot. The elders taught me many things. About the Cetra...
And the Promised Land... I'm...... alone... I'm all alone now...

Cloud: But I'm...... we're here for you, right?

Aerith: I know. I know, but... I am the only...... Cetra.

Cloud: Does that mean we can't help?

Cloud talks to Tifa.

Tifa: Cloud... Bonfires are funny, aren't they? They make you remember all
sorts of things. You know, Cloud. 5 Years ago... ......It's nothing. No, forget
it. I'm afraid to ask...

Cloud: What is it?

Tifa: It feels like... it feels like you're going far away... You really,
really are...... you... right?

Cloud talks to Red XIII.

Red XIII: ...Long ago. ...When I was still very small. We were all around this
flame... No, never mind...

Cloud: What happened?

Red XIII: It's about my parents. When I talk about my mother, I am full of
pride and joy... And that's fine. ...But when I remember my father, my heart is
full of anger...

Bugenhagen: ...You really can't forgive your father...?

Red XIII: Of course. He...... left mother for dead. When the Gi tribe attacked,
he ran off by himself, leaving mother and the people of the Canyon!

Bugenhagen: (just arrived) ...Come, Nanaki. There's something you should see.

Red XIII: ...?

Bugenhagen: The place may be dangerous. Cloud. Will you and one other person
come with us?

Cloud chose Barret along with Red XIII. They head to the door to the Gi Cave.

Bugenhagen: Ho Ho Hoooo. Are we all set?

Cloud is ready.

Bugenhagen: Ho Ho Hoooo. Shall we go? All right. Come in, come in.

Bugenhagen opened the door to Gi Cave.

Red XIII: Hey? Aren't you going with us, Grandpa?

Bugenhagen: What are you crazy? It's dangerous in there. I told you that! You
want an old man like me should go first? I'll be right behind you.

They head inside. In the second cave room...

Bugenhagen: Ho Ho Hoooo. Everyone's here's a Ghost of the Gi Tribe. Killed in a
certain battle.

Red XIII: A certain battle...?

Bugenhagen: The vengeful spirits of the Gi didn't disappear, and couldn't
return to the Lifestream... We still have far to go. Ho Ho Hoooo.

After reaching the third room...

Bugenhagen: As you can see, this cave leads to the back of Cosmo Canyon. It was
unfortunate that the Gi were larger then us. If they attacked through here, we
wouldn't have stood a chance.

Red XIII: ......

Bugenhagen: Let's move on.

After they reach the fourth room...

Bugenhagen: This warrior went through the cave all alone. Fighting attackers
one after another...

Red XIII: Grandpa...... That warrior...

Bugenhagen: Ho Ho Hoooo... We're almost there.

After Cloud's group reached the second to final area...

Bugenhagen: After death... The ghosts of the Gi... Like stagnant air...... This
can't be!!

Cloud’s group fights Gi Nattak. After Cloud’s group defeats Gi Nattak...

Bugenhagen: ...Thank you, Cloud. Because of you, we survived. Nanaki, you have
grown strong, too.

Red XIII: ......Oh yeah?

Bugenhagen: Now I know that it wasn't a mistake bringing you here... Come, I
have something I want to show you. Right over here.

Later, Cloud’s group reached the area Bugenhagen mentioned.

Red XIII: This is...

Bugenhagen: ...The warrior who fought against the Gi. He kept them from taking
even one step into Cosmo Canyon. But he was never able to return to town...
Look, Nanaki. Look at your father, at the warrior, Seto.

We watch a movie of the view of Seto who was turned into stone.

Red XIII: ...That's... That's...... Seto...?

Bugenhagen: Seto continued to fight the Gi tribe here. ...To protect this
Canyon. Even after the Gi's poisonous arrows turned his body to stone......
Even after they all ran away... Seto, continues to protect us. And he continues
to protect us, even now.

Red XIII: Even now...

Bugenhagen: You thought that he was a coward and ran away. But he, alone risked
his life to protect Cosmo Canyon. That is your father, Seto.

Red XIII: That...... that is Seto? ...!? Did mother know?

Bugenhagen: Ho Ho Hoooo... She knew. The two of them made me promise to keep
this cave shut. They asked me to seal it myself and not to tell a soul. They
said we should forget about this case.

Red XIII: .........

Bugenhagen: Cloud... Would you mind leaving the two of us alone?

Cloud takes his leave with Barret.

Bugenhagen: Nanaki. I want you to continue your journey with Cloud and the
others.

Red XIII: Grandpa!?

Bugenhagen: Listen, Nanaki. Cloud says they are trying to save the planet.
Honestly, I don't think it can be done. For even if they stop every reactor on
the planet, it's only going to postpone the inevitable. Even if they stop
Sephiroth, everything will perish. But, Nanaki. I've been thinking lately. I've
been thinking if there was anything WE could do, as a part of the planet,
something to help a planet already in misery... No matter what happens, isn't
it important to try? Am I just wishing against fate? I am too old to do
something about it... This year, you must go with them! For my sake.

Red XIII: Grandpa...

Bugenhagen: I wanted to show you your real father before you left... I'm so
glad that you came back while I was still alive to show you.

Red XIII: Grandpa... don't talk like that. I don't want to think of life...
without you......

Bugenhagen: Ho Ho Hoooo. Well, I've had a long life.

Red XIII: Grandpa! You must live! I'll see to it. I'll see to what's happening
to the planet. And I'll come back to tell you.

Bugenhagen: Nanaki...

Red XIII: I am Nanaki of Cosmo Canyon! The son of the warrior, Seto! I'll come
back a warrior true to that noble name! So please, Grandpa...

Bugenhagen: That's... Seto...... Seto......

Red XIII: Seto...... Fa... Father...

Tears drop from the petrified Seto's eyes and Red XIII howls at him. Meanwhile
with Cloud’s group...

Barret: The buggy's fixed, so we can go now.

Cloud: Shall we get going?

Aerith: So this is it, Red XIII...

Barret: That's just the way it goes. ...You came in handy at times...

Cloud chose Barret and Tifa for his group. Before Cloud’s group heads out...

Red XIII: Wait for me! I'm coming too!

Cloud: Mmm?

Bugenhagen: Cloud. Please look after Nanaki.

Cloud: What happened?

Red XIII: I think I grew up a little. That's what happened!

Cloud's group drove to Nibelheim. In Nibelheim…

Tifa: What---!! This was all supposed to be burnt down, right?

Cloud: ...I thought so.

Tifa: Then why...? My house is still here too...

Barret: The hell's goin' on!? This a dream or somethin'?

Cloud: I'm not lying! I remember...the intense heat of the flames...

In Shinra's Mansion, Cloud found some clues to open the safe and in the safe he
turned the dial, Right 36, Left 10, Right 59, and Right 97. The safe opened but
Cloud's group encountered Lost Number. After killing it, Cloud picked up the
Basement Key and moved and head into the basement. Cloud's group unlocked the
door to a room with coffins. Cloud lift up a coffin revealing a strange man.

Strange Man: Who is it!? ...Never seen you before. You must leave.

Cloud: You were having a nightmare.

Barret: I woke ya up. You outta be thankin' me.

Strange Man: Hmph... a nightmare...? My long sleep has given me time to atone.

Cloud: What are you saying?

Strange Man: I have nothing to say to strangers. Get out. This mansion is the
beginning of your nightmare.

Cloud: ...you can say that again.

Strange Man: Hmm? What do you know?

Cloud: Talk about Sephiroth. Like you said, this mansion is the beginning of a
nightmare. No, it's not a dream, it's for real. Sephiroth has lost his mind. He
found the secrets hidden in this mansion...

Strange Man: Sephiroth!? You know Sephiroth? You start first.

Cloud starts talking about Sephiroth. After doing that.

Cloud: ...That's how it was.

Strange Man: So Sephiroth knows he was created five years ago? And about the
Jenova Project? ...He was missing, but has just recently reappeared. He has
taken many lives and is seeking the Promised Land.

Cloud: Now it's your turn.

Strange Man: Sorry... I cannot speak.

Barret: Hey! You lyin' white-faced!

Strange Man: Hearing your stories has added upon me yet another sin. More
nightmares shall come to me now, more than I previously had. Now... please
leave.

The coffin closed. Cloud woke the strange man again.

Strange Man: ...You're still here.

Cloud: Who are you? At least tell us your name.

Vincent: I was with... the Shinra Manufacturing Department in Administrative
Research, otherwise known as-- the Turks... Vincent.

Cloud: The Turks!?

Vincent: Formerly of the Turks. I have no affiliation with Shinra now. ...And
you?

Cloud: Cloud, formerly of SOLDIER.

Vincent: You were also with Shinra...? Then do you know Lucrecia?

Cloud: Who?

Vincent: ...... Lucrecia. The woman who gave birth to Sephiroth.

Cloud: ...gave birth...? Wasn't Jenova Sephiroth's mother?

Vincent: That isn't completely wrong, but just a theory. He was born from a
beautiful lady. That lady was Lucrecia. She was an assistant to Professor Gast
of the Jenova Project. Beautiful Lucrecia.

Cloud: ...A human experiment?

Vincent: There was no way to cancel the experiment. I couldn't stop her. That
was my sin. I let the one I loved, the one I respected most, face the worst.

Barret: That why you started sleepin' in a box? Gimme a break!

The coffin closed again.

Vincent: Let me sleep...

Cloud's group proceeds to the library. At the library, Cloud met Sephiroth
again.

Cloud: Sephiroth!

Sephiroth: Being here brings back memories. Are you going to participate in the
Reunion?

Cloud: I don't even know what a Reunion is!

Sephiroth: Jenova will be at the Reunion. Jenova will join the Reunion becoming
a calamity from the skies.

Cloud: Jenova, a calamity from the skies? You mean she wasn't an Ancient!?

Sephiroth: ...I see. I don't think you have the right to participate. I will go
North past Mt. Nibel. If you wish to find out... then follow...

Cloud: ...Reunion? Calamity from the skies?

Sephiroth threw the materia at Cloud and flew away. Cloud picked up the
materia. On their way out, Vincent appeared.

Vincent: Wait! If I go with you I meet Hojo?

Cloud: Dunno. But we're after him and Sephiroth. So, I guess sooner or later...

Vincent: Lucrecia... All right. I've decide to go with you.

Barret: W, what?

Vincent: Being a former Turks, I may be of help to you...

Cloud: All right, then.

Cloud called the PHS and replaced Tifa with Vincent. On their way out they head
to Mt. Nibel, they fought Materia Keeper there and destroyed it. Then out of
Mt. Nibel, they head to Rocket Town.

Cloud: What's that...!?

Cloud looks at a tilted rusty Rocket.

Cloud: A rusty old rocket... Wonder what they'd make something that huge for?

Cloud's group went to the Captain's house and looked at the Tiny Bronco.

Cloud: There's a Shinra logo on it. Tiny Bronco...... This is cool!

Barret: The always keep the most useful things to themselves. Let's steal it!

Shera: Um... may I help you?

Cloud: No... We're just looking at it.

Shera: ...If you would like to use it, please ask the Captain. The Captain
should be in the Rocket. I'm Shera. And what are your names?

Cloud: I'm Cloud.

Barret: I'm Barret of AVALANCHE.

Vincent: Vincent. My occupation is...... forget it.

Shera: Hmm... So you're not with the Shinra. I thought the approval for the
reopening of the Space Program came.

Cloud: ......!?

Shera: President Rufus is scheduled to come here. The Captain's been so
restless all morning.

Cloud: Rufus!?

Cloud's group met the Captain in the Rocket.

Captain: What're you guys doin' here?

Cloud: We heard the Captain was here.

Cid: Captain? I'm the Captain! The name's Cid. Everyone calls me 'Captain',
though.

Cid: What d'ya want?

Cloud: Tell me about this rocket.

Cid: Wow! Not bad for a kid. Alright then, I'll explain it to you. You know
Shinra developed a lot of technological gadgets during the meaningless war,
right? Now it's a Mako company, but in the old days it was a weapons
manufacturer. Well, they came up with a Rocket Engine. There was so much
experiment about the thought of going into outer space. Our dreams got bigger
and bigger. They put a major budget into it and made prototype after prototype!
Finally, they completed Shinra No. 26. They chose the best pilot in Shinra--
no, in the world-- me. I mean, come on. And finally we get to the day of the
launch. Everything was goin' well... But, because of that dumb-ass Shera, the
launch got messed up. That's why they become so anal! And so, Shinra mixed
their outer space exploration plans. After they told me how the future was
Space Exploration and got my damn hopes up... DAMN THEM! Then, it was all over
once they found out Mako energy was profitable. They didn't even so much as
look at space exploration. Money, moola, dinero! My dream was just a financial
number for them! Look at this rusted Rocket. I was supposed to be the first man
in space with this. Everyday, it tilts a little bit more. At this rate, I don't
know which will come first, this thing falling down or me gettin' outta here.
My last hope is to talk to the President...

Cloud: Is Rufus coming?

Cid: Yeah! It must be news about restarting the Space Program. A young
President, that's what we needed! He still has dreams, too!

Cloud: Can we borrow the "Tiny Bronco"?

Cid: You out of your $#^*# mind!? That's my most cherished possession. I can't
let you take it.

Cloud's group went back to Cid's house.

Shera: Excuse me... Cloud? Did the Captain say anything?

Cloud: Nope...

Shera: Oh...?

Cid came in.

Cid: #*$&#! Shera. What are you blind!? We got guest!! GET SOME TEA! @&#^@!

Shera: I...I'm sorry.

Cloud: Really, don't mind us.

Cid: (stressed out and angry) Shut up! Sit your ass down in that chair and
drink you goddamn TEA! Arggggggh! DAMN, I'm pissed! Shera! I'll be in the
backyard tunin' up Tiny Bronco! AN' make sure to serve them some tea! All
right!?

Cid left the scene.

Barret: ...damn, man. Wassup with that guy's attitude?

Cloud: Sorry. It's our fault.

Shera: No, no. He's always like this.

Vincent: ...It's amazing that you can live with it.

Shera: No... It's because of my stupid mistake. I was the one who destroyed his
dream...

Cloud: What happened?

In Shera's memory...

Cid: Hey! Get your ass in gear! You work like a snail! Even the moon'd get
tired of waitin' around for your ass!

Shera: I'm... I'm sorry.

Cid: Don't take so much time checkin' that #*$#*&' oxygen tank! Shera, bein'
careful's good, but it won't do any good, no matter how many times you check
that oxygen tank. That thing wouldn't break even if hell froze over.

Shera: But...

Cid: No buts!! You're not stupid, so be more efficient!

Shera: I'm sorry......

Later...

Crew 1: Captain! Our dreams are finally coming true!

Crew 2: We are so proud to be a part of the launch of Shinra No. 26.

Crew 3: Captain, preparations are complete! All that's left is lift off!

Cid: Yeah! Leave it all to me! I'll be back in a few!

Crew 1: All right, Captain! Fly our dreams into outer space!

Cid: Thanks, guys!

Crew 1: We're praying for your safety.

Later Cid's in the control room.

Cid: Instrument panel... all clear. Shinra No. 26, ready for launch.

Computer: Engine pressure rising. Shinra No. 26, 3 minutes to launch. Beginning
countdown.

Cid: ......finally. (there's emergency all of a sudden) What the? What
happened!?

Computer: Cid! We have an emergency situation! A mechanic is still in the
engine section of the rocket!

Cid: What!? Who is the little fuck!?

Computer: I don't know. Activating the intercom in the engine section.

Cid: Hey goddammit!! Who the #*$$#&'s still in there?

Shera: It's Shera, Captain. Don't mind me, go ahead with the launch.

Cid: Shera!? What are you still doin' in there!?

Shera: I was still concerned. The results of the oxygen tank test weren't
satisfactory.

Cid: You stupid little #$&*#! It's gonna get so hot in there that there ain't
gonna be SHIT left when we blast off! You're gonna be burnt to a crisp! You're
gonna die! You know that, doncha!?

Shera: I don't mind. If I can just fix this, the launch will be a success. I'm
almost done.

Cid: Almost done!? You're gonna die!

Computer: Cid, we must start the countdown. We won't make it if we don't!
Starting engine!

Cid: Hey, wait a minute! Shera's still in here!

Computer: What are you going to do, Cid? If we cancel now, it'll be another six
months until the next launch!

Cid: GODDAMMIT, Shera... you wanna make me a murderer?

Shera: Captain!

Cid: Shera!?

Shera: Tank Number 7 check is complete. Once I complete Tank Number 8, it's all
clear.

Cid: Come on, Shera... hurry up... You're gonna die...

Computer: 30 seconds until ignition. Beginning countdown. Cid! Forget about
her. We won't make it in time.

Cid: What... what am I ...What am I supposed to do...?

Computer: 15 seconds until ignition. Internal temperature rising.

Cid: Oh man, the moon... outer space... my dreams...

Computer: Ignite engine.

Cid: SH--------------IT!!

Cid had no choice but to push the shut down switch. We watch a movie of the
Rocket aborting launch. And the Rocket tilted. The memory ended.

Shera: He pushed the Emergency Shut Down switch, aborting the mission, to save
my life. After that, the Space Program was cut back and launch was canceled.
It's my fault his dream was destroyed... That's why... it's all right. I don't
care what the Captain says, I'll live my life for him.

Cid came in.

Cid: Shera! You still haven't served'em tea!

Shera: I... I'm sorry.

Cid takes a seat.

Cid: (to Cloud) Hurry up and sit down! Or ain't my hospitality good enough for
you!? They're late... Where is Rufus...?

Palmer: Hey-HEY! Long time no see! So Cid, how ya been?

Palmer arrived at the scene.

Cid: Well, if it ain't fat man, Palmer. How long were you figurin' on keepin'
me waitin'!? So? When's the Space Program gonna start up again?

Palmer: Hey-hey! I don't know the President's outside, so why don't you ask him?

Cid: #$&*! Good for nothing, fat @#&@!

Cid left.

Palmer: Don't say 'fat'! (to Shera) Hey-hey! Tea! Can I have some too? With
lotsa sugar and honey and... oh yeah, don't forget the lard!

Cloud's group goes outside.

Cid: What the......! You got me all excited for nothing!? Then, what'd you come
here for?

Rufus: I want to borrow the Tiny Bronco. We're going after Sephiroth. But seems
like we've been going in the wrong direction. But now, we think we know where
he's headed. But, we have to cross the ocean. That's why we want your plane...

Cid: $*#&! First the Airship, then the Rocket, and now, the Tiny Bronco. Shinra
took outer space away from me and now you want to take the sky away from me
too!?

Rufus: Oh my... You seem to forget it was because of Shinra, Inc. that you were
able to fly in the first place.

Cid: What!?

Shera: (to Cloud) Uh, excuse me... This way... (inside) You wanted to use the
Tiny Bronco, right? I believe Palmer's going to take it. Why don't you talk to
him?

Cloud's group went outside and talks to Palmer.

Palmer: Hmm... Why do I have to do this...? I'm the head of the Space Program...

Cloud: We'll be takin' that Tiny Bronco.

Palmer: I've seen you somewhere before... I know! The Shinra building! When the
President was killed! Ullp! Se... se... security!!

Cloud’s group fights Palmer. After Cloud’s group defats Palmer, the Tiny Bronco
turned on and Palmer attempts to run away, but was hit by a truck. After that...

Vincent: It's not going to stop...

Cloud: Forget it! Get in!!

We watch a movie of the Tiny Bronco flying with Cloud's group. The Shinra
soldiers opened fire at the Tiny Bronco and Cid quickly hopped on with Cloud's
group. The tail of the Tiny Bronco was hit by one of the Shinra soldier's rifle.

Cid: Shit!! The tail's been hit!

Cloud: Emergency landing...

Cid: This's gonna be a big splash! Hold on to your drawers, an' don't piss in
'em!!

We watch a movie of the Tiny Bronco landing on a river. Later...

Cid: She won't fly anymore.

Cloud: Can't we use it as a boat?

Cid: #$#&*! Do whatever you want!

Cloud: Cid, what are you going to do now?

Cid: Dunno. I'm history with the Shinra and I've given up on the town.

Cloud: How 'bout your wife? How 'bout Shera?

Cid: Wife? Don't make me laugh! Just thinkin' 'bout marryin' her gives me the
chills. What're you guys gonna do?

Cloud: We're going after a man named Sephiroth. We'll have to get Rufus of the
Shinra someday, too.

Cid: I don't know any of that, but... What the hell!? Sign me up!

Cloud: How 'bout it, everyone?

Vincent: ...Do whatever you like.

Cid: Glad to be aboard, numbskulls!

Cloud: Numbskulls...?

Cid: Yeah. Anyone stupid enough to go up against Shinra nowadays, has GOTTA be
a numbskull! I like it! So, where we headed? Rufus was goin' after Sephiroth
towards the Temple of the Ancients.

Cloud: Really!? ...Where is it? That Temple of the Ancients?

Cid: Dunno. That numbskull kid was tellin' me he was headin' 'The wrong
direction'... so maybe it's off this way?

Cloud: Let's just head for land and get some information. Temple of the
Ancients... that name bothers me.

Cloud replaces Vincent with Cid. First Cloud's group decided to go to Wutai. On
their way.

Yuffie: Wait, wait, wait, wai----t!!

Barret: What!? The hell happened, all of a sudden!?

Yuffie: I know this area pretty well. It gets pretty tough past here. Better
get ready...

Barret: ...You serious? And you sayin' that just now means you're up to
somethin'! Right!? That means, I don't trust you.

Yuffie: No! It's REALLY tough...

Shinra soldier: There they are, catch 'em!!

Cid: What, the Shinra!?

Shinra soldier 1: Hey, that's not them! These are the other guys from before!!

Barret: Yuffie, so you're...!

Yuffie: I didn't know! I have nothing to do with this one!

Barret: Whaddya mean 'this one'!? 'This one'! So you WERE plannin' somethin'!!

Yuffie: No, umm, uh......

Shinra soldier 1: What should we do!?

Shinra soldier 2: Uh... Get them! Grab them and ask questions later!!

Cloud’s gruop fight 2 Attack Squads. After Cloud's group defeats 2 Attack
Squads...

Barret: The hell's goin' on!? I knew somethin' was missing. All my materia's
gone!!

Cid: Ey... where the hell's that damn kid...?

Barret: That #*$&#&' kid!!! Grrrrrgh!! Arrrrrgh! Uhhhhhhhhhhhh!! She was after
our materia from the start!! She went north! When I get my hand on her, I'll
get our materia back! C'mon! We're goin' after her!

Cloud's group then head to Wutai. In there...

Yuffie: Hey!!

Yuffie ran. Cloud search for her in Godo's home. Cloud talks to Godo.

Godo: (sleeping while talking) GOOGAH... what do you want? Don't have... GAH...
anything much but, you should be able to... GOO... rest yourselves here.
GOOGAH... make yourselves at home. ......Yuffie? ......nope, never heard of
her. ...GOOGO... ...you again? I told you once, and I'm telling you again, I
don't know her. Listen. I said I didn't know her! There isn't anyone named
Yuffie here in Wutai! (woke up) ...never seen you before... Lately I've been
seeing a lot of Shinra soldiers around here... You wouldn't have anything to do
with that would you? I don't care about who you are. But if you're in trouble
with the Shinra, I'm going to have to ask you to leave. I don't want the Shinra
hanging around here looking over my shoulder.

Yuffie: (to Godo) What's with you, you coward!

Godo: Yuffie......!

Yuffie: You scared of  the Shinra? Then why don't you fall into line and obey
them, just like all of the other towns! Those guys are the ones who are really
fighting the Shinra!

Godo: Shut up! What would you know about this?

Yuffie: You get beaten once, and then that's it? What happened to the mighty
Wutai I used to know?

Godo: No kid like you's going to talk to me like that! You keep acting like
that! You ought to be ashamed of yourself!

Yuffie: That's my style! And it's my own business, not yours! Don't you try and
dictate what I should do!

Godo: Style...? Dictate...? Throwin' around all those fancy words... You're a
miserable fighter!

Yuffie: Hmph! You're a sad excuse for a father!!

Godo goes after Yuffie but she is too fast for him. Cloud's group moves on and
when they went in the Item Shop and opened the chest with the MP Absorb Materia
Yuffie mysteriously appeared and stole it from Cloud. Cloud searches for Yuffie
in one of the house and opened the screen where Yuffie's hiding.

Yuffie: ......

Yuffie ran and Cloud's group went outside and saw a moving jar near the
Turtle's Paradise. Cid and Barret blocked the way to the bridges and Cloud
punched the jar enough times to get Yuffie out. After Yuffie gets out, Cloud's
group blocked her way.

Cloud: You can't get away, Yuffie.

Yuffie: O... okay, I know... I was wrong...... You win. I'll give you back your
materia...

Meanwhile at Turtle's Paradise...

Shinra soldier 1: So our reports were right! He IS here on vacation! We've
finally found him! Get the Turks here for back-up!

Reno: ...what a drag.

Shinra soldier 1: Ww, what was that...?

Reno: Right now we're off duty and can't run off to save your butts.

Shinra soldier 1: We know you're off duty, but... If you knew that, then don't
bother us! Lookin' at you is makin' me sober.

Shinra soldier 2: All right, that's it! We'll get him without any help from the
Turks just you see! (left and came back) And don't think that headquarters
isn't going to hear about this!!

The Shinra soldiers ran away from the scene.

Elena: Reno, do you think that was really such a good idea!? I mean that the
way a professional, a Turk would act!?

Reno: Elena. Don't misunderstood. A pro isn't someone who sacrifices himself
for his job. That's just a fool.

Elena: Rude...?

Rude: .........

Elena: Well, I don't buy that! Goodbye!!

Elena left.

Rude: .........

Reno: Relax. She's not a child. Let her have her way now...

Meanwhile in Yuffie's home...

Yuffie: ...I've been hearing that ever since I was little. Before I was born,
Wutai was a lot more crowded and more important... You saw what it looks like
now, right? ...JUST a resort town... After we lost the war, we got peace, but
with that, we lost something else. Now look at Wutai... That's why... if I had
lots of materia I could...

Cloud: Listen, Yuffie. I don't care about the history of Wutai or your
feelings. You've got our materia and I want it back... now. If you give it back
now, we'll drop the whole thing.

Yuffie: I know. I know that... That... sniff... switch... the lever on the
left...... materia's... sniff, hic... in there.

Cloud flicks the switch on the left.

Cid: Whoa!?

The cage dropped on Cid and Barret.

Yuffie: Ha ha------! You should've listened!! The Materia's mine! Tough! (left
and came back) You want your materia? Then go find it yourself! Yeah that's
right. And when you're looking for the materia, remember you gotta steel it.
Heh heh... steel... steel! Get it! C’ya!

Yuffie ran away.

Cloud flicked the switch again and freed Cid and Barret. After that, Cloud’s
group heads to an area with a gong and Cloud's group hit it and the door was
revealed. Then inside...

Yuffie: (being grabbed by Corneo's men) Let go! I SAID let GO! Hey! Who do you
think I...... OW! What're you doin'...? Jerk!

Cloud: You......!

Corneo: ...... ho...... ...............ho......... Hohi, hohi! Hohihi!

Cloud: Corneo!?

Corneo: Hohi! I've finally got a new chicky! Two for me, in fact! Hohi, hohi!

Cloud: Two!?

Elena: (grabbed by Corneo's men) H......hey! Let go if me! You're gonna regret
this!!

Corneo: Hohi, hohi! Hohihi!

Cloud’s group goes after them.

Shinra soldier: There he is! It's Corneo! Don't let him get away! Attaaaack!

Corneo ran away. Cloud's group fights the Shinra soldiers. After Cloud's group
defeats the Shinra soldier, Cloud's group saw Reno and Rude outside.

Reno: Hmm... that Corneo is good at escaping...

Rude: ......Elena.

Reno: Let's go Rude. We'll give them a taste of what the Turks can do.
......Sounded pretty good. If Elena is in his hands, that's going to make
things a little difficult. And uh...

Cloud: ......Ok. Corneo took Yuffie from us. And without Yuffie there's no way
we'll get our materia back.

Reno: Don't misunderstand. We have no intention of joining you. But for now,
we'll agree not to bother each other. That's all.

Cloud: That's fine. We have absolutely no intention of cooperating with the
Turks either. Now, uh, just what direction did Corneo run off to?

Reno: Hmm, nice attitude. Here's a clue, it's the place that stands out the
most.

Cloud's group moved on to Da-chao (statues). On there.

Reno: You're finally here. We're gonna split into two. You do whatever you
want. But don't endanger Elena. Don't worry. We won't do anything to that girl,
Yuffie. For now...

Cloud later saw Corneo with the two females tied to the statue's eyes.

Yuffie: LET... ME......GO!!!!

Corneo: Hmm! Delicious... scrumptious! I think I've just found a new HOBBY!
Which shall it be? Hmm... Hmm... Should I go... with HER?

Elena: H... hey, I'm one of the 'Turks'! Don't think you can get away with
this!?

Corneo: Or... maybe... HER?

Yuffie: Oh GAWD! If I knew this was gonna happen, I would've taken rope lessons
more seriously!!

Corneo: Hmm!! I've made my choice! My companion for the night will be......
...the cheerful one!

Yuffie: GROSS-NESS! Don't mess with me old man! You don't even have any Materia!

Corneo: Oooooh! And she's saucy, too! Wheee! Wheee!

Cloud: All right, that's it!!

Corneo: Hee-haw. What... what's goin' on!? Who's there?

Yuffie: Oh man! Cloud......!

Corneo: Wheeel... long time no see.

Cloud: Don't tell me you forgot...

Cid: Maybe God'd forgive an ugly #$*&# like you, but I won't!

Barret: You damn Midgar hyena...!

Corneo: Be quiet! None of you know how much I've suffer since then... It's a
long story, but......

Cid: I don't really give a damn! You're gonna let the two girls go or else I'm
gonna break your arm!

Corneo: Hmm... You guys are... serious. ......Good, good. ...this ain't no time
for me to be fooling around either... Why did you kill my little Aps? I'm gonna
make you PLAY with my new pet, so you won't get in the way of my search for a
bride! RAPPS--- come here!!

Cloud's group fights Rapps. After Cloud's group defeat Rapps...

Corneo: Wait... Just wait a second!

Cloud: SHUT UP!

Corneo: Just listen to me, it won't take long. Why do you think a bad guy like
me would swallow his pride and plead for his life?

Cloud: Because he's sure to win?

Corneo: Hmm...! RIGHT!

Corneo activated the switch and turned Yuffie and Elena upside down.

Elena: Eyaaaah...!

Yuffie: Makes me so MAD...!

Corneo: If I push this button, they'll fall upside down, and we'll have a
SQUASHED TOMATOES!

Cloud: Damn...!

Cid: So this is how a loser lives...!

Barret: Damn dirty-playin' @*#&$@*#&@@#!

Corneo: Ha, ha, ha, ha! I guess I'm the one laughing last!

Reno: No, that would be us.

Corneo: Hee-haw. What... what's goin' on!? Who's there? ...The Turks!

Reno appeared at the scene.

Reno: You knew this was gonna happen ever since you leaked that secret. We're
going to take care of you... personally.

Corneo: DAMMIT! Then they're all goin' with me!

Rude appeared and made Corneo fell. Corneo grabbed on to the statue's arm.

Reno: Good timing, Rude.

Rude: ...Let's get to work.

Reno: (stepping on Corneo's hands) All right, Corneo. This'll be over quick, so
listen up. Why do you think we went to all the trouble of teaming up with those
guys to get you...? 1. Because we were ready to die, 2. Because we were sure of
victory, or 3. Because we were clueless.

Corneo: Two... Number two?

Reno: All wrong.

Reno continues to step on Corneo's hands.

Corneo: No...! Wait, sto......! Aaaaaaaaaa......p...

Corneo fell to his death.

Reno: The correct answer was...

Rude: ...because it's our job.

Elena: Oh, thank you very much...! I never expected you'd to come help......

Reno: Elena, don't act so weak. You're a Turks!

Elena: Y... Yes, sir!

Barret: (to Rude) Never thought you'd come an' help us...

Rude: ......

Reno's PHS rang and he picked it up.

Reno: Yes... this is Reno. Yes... Yes... I'll get on it right away?

Elena: Was that the company?

Reno: Yeah, they want us to find Cloud...

Rude: Are we on...?

Reno: No, today we're off duty.

Yuffie: Hey-- who cares about that!? Get---- me----- down----!

After that, Cloud's group and Yuffie are back at her house. She placed back the
materias of Cloud's group.

Yuffie: Phew, perfect. Now the materia is back in its rightful place.

Cloud: Hey... the placement of it is all messed up.

Yuffie: Huh? Oh, it'll be all right... Don't be so picky! Anyways, that sure
was close...... No, normally I would kick their butts, Boom, Bang!! That Corneo
guy's a real pain. I'd rather deal with my dad than deal with that guy. Oh, by
the way, some of those guys from the Turks are good, huh? At least, after all
that, we got the materia back. Now come on everybody, let's continue our
journey... (everyone left)......Hey!! Wait! Oh, all right. Here, I'll give this
to you guys. Here, look, look!

She got the MP Absorb Materia.

Yuffie: .........Come on, wait---! No matter what anyone says, I'm going with
you! ...next time......

Cloud's group decided to go to the pagoda in Wutai and they replace Barret with
Yuffie. Inside the pagoda...

Gorky: Oh, Miss Yuffie! Will you be climbing the pagoda today?

Yuffie: Yeah, that's it.

Gorky: Then I, Sacred Gorky, will be your opponent on the first floor!

Shake arrived.

Shake: Yo! They call me Shake! I'll be watchin' your fight with Gorky!

Gorky: Then, begin! Power Change!

Yuffie fights Gorky. After Yuffie defeats Gorky...

Gorky: Here I am, Miss Yuffie!

Yuffie: Of course!

Shake: Hmm, I thought you were just a wild girl, but you handled that pretty
well! Well, we'll see how you do on next one...

Cloud's group moved on to the second floor. In there...

Yuffie: Who's next?

Shake: Are you blind? I'm right here!

Yuffie: What? I gotta fight a punk?

Shake: Heh! Punk. I'm more of an adult than some bimbo girl!

Yuffie: Wh, what did you say!?

Shake: See what I mean? That kind of anger's what makes you so immature! Don't
pat yourself on the back until you beat me!

Yuffie: Now watch...!

Shake: 'Bout the only thing you do really good is breathe! Sure you're brave
enough to fight?

Yuffie: Stop yappin'!

Chekhov: Hm, so someone finally got past Gorky.

Chekhov arrived.

Shake: So, I guess it's time for Chekhov to stand in... Here I go, brat! Speed
Change!

Yuffie fights Shake. After Yuffie defeats Shake...

Shake: URRGRAAAAGH!! So you CAN fight a bit!

Yuffie: Of course!

Chekhov: Ho, ho, ho... It's been a while since I felt pain...

Cloud's group moves on to the next floor. There, someone arrived.

Staniv: So even Shake's been defeated. It's been a while since you had to
fight, Chekhov.

Chekhov: Unfortunately, this is as far as it goes. Staniv, you watch over there.

Yuffie: This ain't going to happen! I'll teach you about the strength of youth!

Chekhov: Keep mouthing off like that, little girl, and you're going to get
burned.

Yuffie: I got insurance.

Chekhov: Ho, ho, ho. We'll see if you still talk like that after you taste some
of my Sacred Magic... Magic Change!

Yuffie fights Chekhov. After Yuffie defeats Chekhov...

Chekhov: I can't believe you beat me...

Yuffie: Of course!

Staniv: This should be interesting...! It's been a long time since I've had a
chance to use my powers to their fullest...

Cloud's group moves on to the next floor. In there...

Staniv: The rule is the best fighter on each floor will be your opponent...
Although it's a five-storied pagoda, the fourth floor is the highest... In
other words, no one has ever defeated me---Master of Weaponry! You still want
to try...?

Yuffie: Just come on!!

Staniv: I like you! Now watch... Weapon Change!

Yuffie fights Staniv. After Yuffie defats Staniv...

Staniv: Wh, what...!?

Yuffie: Of course!

Gorky arrived.

Gorky: Splendid! Your level and skills have improved...

Shake arrived.

Shake: Oh, ho! You might not be as much of a child as we thought you were!

Chekhov arrived.

Chekhov: Of course. If WE lost to her...

Staniv: You have defeated four of our best, but now you will have to face
him......!

Cloud's group moved on to the last floor. In there...

Yuffie: D, ...Dad!?

Godo: I'm glad you made it this far, Yuffie!

Yuffie: Why, why are you......

Godo: I'll answer you by having you try your skills against me! Hold nothing
back. Come as if you're trying to kill me! If you don't...then I'll have to
kill you!

Yuffie: H...hey!

Godo: What are you doing! OMNI-Change!! ......!!

Yuffie fights Godo. After Yuffie wins the fight...

Yuffie: ...heave......heave...

Godo: ...huff......puff......

Yuffie: O...old coot... n......ot...bad...

Godo: You've......also......improved...

Yuffie: Hah...ha, ha......

Godo: ...Heh, heh......

Yuffie: Ha ha haaaaaa......!

Godo: Waha haaaaa......!

Later, after Yuffie and Godo pulled themselves together...

Godo: It's time I give you this to you, Yuffie... This is Leviathan Materia.
Take it.

Cloud's group got the Leviathan Materia.

Staniv: But, Lord Godo. The Leviathan Materia should only be given to the
person who conquers the takes over this Pagoda. That is our custom...

Yuffie: CUSTOM, CUSTOM, CUSTOM... I'm so sick of hearing that! It's so stupid!

Gorky: Silence, Miss Yuffie!

Yuffie: Then what 'bout all the rest of you? You have all that power... Are you
satisfied being cooped up in this tower?

Godo: Yuffie...!

Yuffie: You too, dad...! Just because you lost the war! And turning Wutai into
a place like this!

Chekhov: ...What do you want to say?

Yuffie: You turned Wutai into a cheesy resort town peddling to tourists... How
dare you!? Da-chao Statue and Leviathan are ashamed!!

Godo: ...

Shake: She IS a kid.

Yuffie: Wh, what did you say...!?

Godo: Yuffie!! Forgive me... It's all my fault...

Gorky: What are you saying, Lord Godo!

Godo: Losing the war...turning Wutai into this. It was all my fault...

Chekhov: Lord Godo!

Godo: Silence!! (to Yuffie) Yuffie...... I am the same now as I was before when
I wanted the war. But, after I lost the war, I began to think... Is strength,
only for defeating the enemy? ...or just something to show-off to others...?
Might begets might. That's the same way as the Shinra...

Yuffie: ......

Godo: I knew you were looking for Materia for the good of Wutai. But, the
reason I hide my strength now, is also for the good of Wutai... And now, I
realize both are necessary... Strength without determination means nothing. And
determination without strength is equally useless...!

Staniv: Lord Godo...

Godo: (to Cloud's other group) You there, please take Yuffie with you! I
perceive that you all have both determination and strength!

Cid: Well, just tell yourself you're on a big ship, and leave the rest to ol'
Cid!

Cloud: All right, I don't mind.

Godo: Go, Yuffie! For the sake of strengthening Wutai!

Yuffie: Dad...

Godo: I'll take care of the Five Sacred Gods until you return! Go! And come
back alive!

Yuffie: ...... Of course!

Before Yuffie can leave...

Godo: Yuffie, wait a minute. The Materia they all have... After their battle is
over, you think they'll still want it?

Yuffie: Dad...!

Godo: Go! Survive till the end! And return! With the Materia!

Yuffie: Heh, heh...you bet!

Cloud's folks head to North Corel with the Tiny Bronco and went to the Gold
Saucer. Then Cloud's group went to the Battle Square and in the Battle Arena,
they went into Dio's collection room.

Cloud: It's the Keystone...

Dio: Heh, heh, heh. Long time no see, my boy. Hmm? You liked that, huh? I got
it from the guy in a little shack that's south of here, past the 'River'. If
you want to know about it, go there and talk to him.

Cloud: Can you let me borrow this?

Dio: Heh, heh, heh. Sorry, but it's not for rent. Hmm. Since you been good to
me in the past, I CAN let you have it on one condition.

Cloud: One condition?

Dio: Heh, heh, heh. Entertain me!

Cloud: What'd you want me to do?

Dio: Hoo boy! Heh, heh, heh. It's not something that's really difficult. This
is the Battle Arena. Show me your fighting skills, Just you, my boy. I'm
expecting a good fight!

Cloud entered the Battle Arena and fought some opponents. After that.

Dio: That's the best you could do? Well, a promise is a promise. Go ahead, take
it.

Cloud took the Keystone.

Dio: Well then, we shall meet again! Heh, heh, heh.

Dio left.

As Cloud's group went to the Ropeway Station.

Staff: Excuse me, sir. I'm sorry. The Tram is out of order right now.

Cloud: ...so?

Staff: I'm really sorry! I'm afraid you won't be able to leave until it's fully
repaired.

Cait Sith: (came to Cloud) What's wrong? Too bad. It happens though. I know!
Let's stay at the hotel! They know me here. I'll go talk to them.

Staff: I will let you know once the repairs are completed.

Later, Cloud's folks are in the Ghost Hotel.

Cait Sith: We don't usually get the chance to be together like this, huh?
Cloud, how 'bout it? Can you tell us what's happened so far? I don't really
know what's goin' on because I wasn't here in the beginning.

Cid: Yeah! I'm all for it!

Vincent: Good idea.

Barret: I been here since the beginnin', an' I still don't know what the hell's
goin' on either. Cloud, the hell's goin' on? C'mon, tell us!

Cloud: I'm tired...

Cid: All we have to do now is sleep! You're still young! What're you complaining
about?

Cloud: Phew... We are going after Sephiroth. Sephiroth must be in search of the
Promised Land.

Cid: The Promised Land?

Cloud: A land full of Mako energy. ...or at least that's what the Shinra
believe. I don't know if it actually exists.

Aerith: The Cetras return to the Promised Land. A land that promises boundless
happiness.

Barret: Cetra? That some kinda disease?

Aerith: That's what the Ancients call themselves. Hey, didn't you listen to the
elders at Cosmo Canyon? ...You don't 'know' where the Promised Land of the
Ancients is. You search and travel, until you feel it. Like you just know,
'...this is the Promised Land'.

Cloud: Aerith... can you feel it too?

Aerith: I think so.

Tifa: So Sephiroth is traveling the world because he's searching for the
Promised Land? Is that it?

Aeris: That, and one other thing he's searching for.

Cloud: The Black Materia...

Cait Sith: I heard from Dio that a man in a Black Cape was lookin' for the
Black Materia.

Tifa: I don't even know what the Black Cape is... How many men with Black Capes
and number tattoos are there?

Red XIII: ...you know, of course... My tattoo is number 13.

Cloud: How did you get that tattoo?

Red XIII: ...Hojo put it on me. Everything else is just wars scars, but the
number was done by Hojo.

Tifa: So there are at least 13!?

Aerith: ...You know...... I think Hojo did something to those men in the Black
Capes. But I don't know what it has to do with Sephiroth though... That's why I
think we should just go after Sephiroth himself.

Barret: Yeah, me too! It's all just too damn confusin'.

Aerith: And... I'm sorry, forget it! I think I'm tired, I'm going to bed now.

Cait Sith: What was that, all of a sudden!?

Yuffie: What!? That's it? I'm goin' to bed!

Cait Sith: Is that all? How 'bout the Black Materia?

Cloud: You wouldn't understand even if I told you.

Barret: Now all we gotta do is take action! We're startin' tomorrow!!

Red XIII: Cloud... I'm number 13. Am I going to go mad too?

Tifa: I don't know what Hojo did to you, but you've been all right so far,
right?

Red XIII: But...

Tifa: Be strong.

Red XIII: But, I...

Tifa: Stop it, Red XIII! Be strong!

Cloud: Tifa?

Tifa: (to Red XIII) You're not the only one who's worried!

Cait Sith: I don't know what's goin' on, but we're in a bad situation...

Vincent: Hey Cid, let's go back to our rooms.

Cid: ...zzzz...zzzz...

Later in Cloud's room.

Aerith: Hee, hee!

Cloud: What's wrong?

Aerith: You want to go on a date?

Cloud: What?

Aerith: A DA--TE! Or haven't you ever gone on one?

Cloud: Don't take me for a fool.

Aerith: Hey... a little touchy, aren't we? Oh, well. C'mon let's go!

Cloud: (pushed and dragged by Aerith) Hey!

Cloud and Aerith went to the Station.

Staff: Tonight's Enchantment Night! All the attractions are free. How 'bout it
you two? There's going to be an entertaining show in Event Square!

Aerith: (to Cloud) Come on, let's go.

Cloud and Aeris went into the Event Square.

Staff: Congratulations!! You are our 100th couple today!! You two will be the
leads in tonight's show!!!!

Cloud: Wha?

Staff: Oh, now, it's not hard. Just play it however you want to and the rest of
the cast will cover up for you. Come this way.

Cloud: H, hey!

Aerith: This sounds like fun. Come on Cloud, let's do it.

The performance begins.

Narration: Long, long ago... An evil shadow appeared over the peaceful kingdom
of Galdia... Princess Rosa was just kidnapped by the Evil Dragon King,
Valvados. What will become of her? Just then, the legendary hero, Alfred
appears!!

Cloud and the Knight appeared on the stage.

Knight: Oh...... You must be the legendary hero... Alfred!

Cloud does not know what to say.

Knight: Hey, it's your line.

Cloud points at himself.

Knight: Yeah, you. Ahem! Oh...... You must be the legendary hero... Alfred! I
know in my soul. Please... please save Princess Rosa! Now...... Please talk...
to the King......!!

The King appeared on the stage.

King: Oh... legendary hero, Alfred. You have come to save my beloved Rosa... On
the peak of a dangerous mountain... dwells the Evil Dragon King, Valvados...
Who's kidnapped Princess Rosa... But... you can't beat the Evil Dragon King
now! Talk to one who can help you...

The Wizard appeared on the stage. Cloud talks to the Wizard.

Wizard: I am the great wizard, Vorman. What do you wish to know?

Cloud: The Evil Dragon King's weakness.

Wizard: Ahh, the weakness of the Evil Dragon King. It must be, it must be...
Yes, it must be... True love! The power of love... Is the only weapon that can
withstand the fangs of the Evil Dragon King...!

Narration: Oh what is going to happen next...! Oh...Legendary hero... look!

The Evil Dragon King appeared with Aeris as the Princess being held by him.

EDK (Evil Dragon King): Gaaaaaaaah! I am the Evil Dragon King... Valvados! I
have not harmed the Princess... I have been expecting... you!

Aerith: Please help me... Legendary hero... Alfred! Psst...... like that?

EDK: Gaaaaaah! Here I come, Legendary hero... Alfred! I already know... your
name!

Wizard: And now... Legendary hero...! Here is what will happen... to your
beloved...... A kiss! The power of True Love!!

Cloud kisses Aerith's hand.

Aerith: Cloud... I mean, Alfred.

EDK: Arrggaahhh!! Curses...... The power of... love!!

The EDK disappeared.

King: Oh... look! Love has... triumphed! Now let's all return... And celebrate.

Everyone: Yes let's... yes let's...!

Narration: Oh, how profound the power of love... And so the legendary hero
Alfred and our story live on happily ever after.

After the show is over, Cloud and Aerith head to the Station.

Aerith: Oh, that was fun. Hey, let's go on the Gondola.

Cloud and Aerith proceed to the Round Square.

Aerith: (to the staff) Two, please.

Staff: Here you are, two tickets. Enjoy the nights, of Gold Saucer.

Inside the Gondola...

Aerith: (looking at the window) Wow, how nice. Oh! Look, Cloud. It's so pretty.

We watch a movie of the fireworks at the Gold Saucer and the Gondola moving.

Aerith: ......it's beautiful, isn't it? ......First off, it bothered me how you
looked exactly like. Two completely different people, but look exactly the
same. The way you walk, gesture... I think I must have seen him again, in
you... But you're different. Things are different...

We watch a movie of the view of the Gold Saucer.

Aerith: Cloud... I'm searching for you.

Cloud: ...............?

Aerith: I want to meet you.

Cloud: But I'm right here.

Aerith: (I know, I know... what I mean is...) I want to meet...... you.

After that, Cloud and Aerith got off the Gondola. Aerith talks with Cloud.

Aerith: I had fun tonight. Let's go together again. You don't like being with
me?

Cloud: Yeah.

Aerith: Oh, don't tease me like that! Oh, look at the time. We'd better get
going.

Cloud and Aerith head to the Station where they saw Cait Sith at the scene.

Aerith: Hey? What's Cait Sith doing?

Cloud: !! Is that the... keystone? Hey! Cait Sith!

Cait Sith fled the scene and Cloud and Aerith chase after him. After a while,
Cait Sith appeared outside of Chocobo Square. The Shinra Helicopter appeared at
the scene and Cait Sith gave the Keystone to Tseng.

Tseng: Well done.

The helicopter flew away from the scene.

Cloud: Hey!

Cait Sith: W, wait a second. I won't run or hide. Yes, I was a spy. I was hired
by the Shinra.

Aerith: (felt deceived)…I trusted you. I can't believe you!

Cait Sith: I couldn't help it. How 'bout if we continue like nothing ever
happened?

Cloud: No way, cat! You gotta lot of guts acting like friend but being a spy!

Cait Sith: Then, what are you goin' to do? Kill me? You'd just be wastin' your
time if you tried. This body's just a toy anyway. My real body's at Shinra
Headquarters in Midgar. I'm controllin' this toy cat from there.

Aerith: So you're from Shinra. Who? Who are you! Tell me!

Cait Sith: Whoa, I can't tell you my name.

Cloud: We're not gettin' anywhere.

Cait Sith: See? I told you! Talking won't do any good, so can't we just
continue our journey?

Cloud: You think I'm jokin'!?

Cait Sith: ...Alright, yes, I am a Shinra employee. But we're not entirely
enemies. ...Something bothers me. I think it's your way of life. You don't get
paid. You don't get praised. Yet, you still risk your lives and continue on
your journey. Seeing that makes me... It just makes me think about my life. I
don't think I'd feel too good if things ended the way they are now.

Aerith: ......And so on, and so on...

Cloud: He'll never tell the truth. Once a spy, always a spy. We can't go on
with someone like that. C'mon get real!!

Cait Sith: ...just as I thought. Talking won't make a bit of difference. But I
prepared something in case this happened. Why don't you listen to this?

Recording of Marlene: Papa! Tifa!

Aerith: Hey! That's Marlene!

Recording of Marlene: Hey! It's the flower lady! Flower lady...

Cait Sith: ...So, you have to do as I say.

Cloud: ...you're the lowest...

Cait Sith: I didn't want to do this... using dirty tricks and taking
hostages... But this is how it is... no compromises. So why don't we continue
on as we did? Oh, you didn't seem to know this, but... The Keystone is the key
to the Temple of the Ancients. Even so, you're all going, right? I know where
it is, so I'll show you later. The Shinra have already been there, but I guess
you have to deal with that.

Cloud: ...Well, we're stuck... We'll have to do what he says.

Aerith: I wonder if Marlene is all right... I wonder what happened to Mom.

The next morning, Cloud got out of his room and met up with his folks.

Cait Sith: What took you so long, Cloud? Oh yeah, about the Temple of the
Ancients. I think if we take the Tiny Bronco East towards the sea, we should be
able to find it. Well then, shall we get goin'? Who's gonna go?

Aerith: I want to go! I'm going for sure!

Cloud along with Aerith included Cid to join.

Cait Sith: Then see you later.

Later, Cloud's group proceeds to the Temple of the Ancients with the Tiny
Bronco. At the Temple of the Ancients...

Aerith: This is... the Temple of the Ancients... I... know... I feel it... The
knowledge of the Ancients... floating... You could become one with the Planet,
but you're stopping it with the strength of will. For the future? For us?

Cloud: What are you saying? Do you understand?

Aerith: You're uneasy... But happy? Because I'm here? I'm sorry ...I don't
understand. I want to go inside!

Inside, Cloud's group saw Tseng badly wounded.

Aerith: Hey! It's Tseng!

Cloud: Tseng? Of the Turks!?

Tseng: Uh... I've been had. It's not the Promised Land... Sephiroth's searching
for...

Cloud: Sephiroth? He's inside!?

Tseng: Look... for yourself... Damn... Letting Aerith go was the start... of
my... bad luck... The President... was wrong...

Aerith: You're wrong. The Promised Land isn't like what you imagined. And, I'm
not going to help. Either way, there was no way Shinra could won.

Tseng: ...pretty harsh. Sounds like something... you'd say. (to Cloud) The
Keystone... Place it... on... the alter...

The badly wounded Tseng gave the Keystone to Cloud. Tseng walked to the other
side and sits near a pillar as he continues to clench his wounds.

Cloud: You crying?

Aerith: ...Tseng's with our enemy, the Turks, but I've known him since we were
little... There's not a lot of people I can say that about. In fact, there are
probably only a handful of people in the world who really know me.

Cloud placed the Keystone on the alter. After that, Cloud's group is taken to
the inner sanctum.

Aerith: Words... feelings... So many of them here.

Cid: Shit! Shit! Shit! What the hell's with this place!

Aerith: ...Cloud! I know it's going to be tough, but... Don't give up! We can do
it!

Cloud's group went to one area with boulders passing by. After Cloud reached
the end of the boulder area.

Aerith: Phew--- We did it!

Cloud: Everyone all right? That sure took a lot out of us.

Aerith: Oh no... Cloud. Come quick!! Hurry, this way! It's full of knowledge
...consciousness... a living soul... It's trying to say something. I'm sorry, I
don't understand. What? What is it? ...Danger? An evil...consciousness?
...show? You're going to show me?

Cloud's group watch a flashback of what happened early ago in the Temple of the
Ancients.

Cloud: (talking while watching the flashback) ...What's going on?

Aerith: Wait! Look! It's showing us!

Elena: Tseng, what's this? Can we find the Promised Land with this?

Tseng: ...I wonder. Anyway, we have to report to the President.

Elena: Be careful, Tseng.

Tseng: Yeah... Hey Elena, how 'bout dinner after this job's over?

Elena: Th... Thank you very much. If I may be excused...

Tseng: (to himself) Is this the Promised Land? No, it can't be...

Sephiroth appeared suddenly.

Tseng: Sephiroth!!

Sephiroth: So you opened the door. Well done.

Tseng: This place... what is it?

Sephiroth: A lost treasure house of knowledge. The wisdom of the Ancients... I
am becoming one with the Planet.

Tseng: One with the Planet?

Sephiroth: You stupid fools. You have never even thought about it. All the
spirit energy of this Planet. All its wisdom... knowledge... I will meld with
it all. I will become one with it... it will become one with me.

Tseng: ...you can do that?

Sephiroth: The way...... lies here.

Sephiroth slashed Tseng and he fell to the floor.

Sephiroth: Only death awaits you all. But do not fear. For it is through death
that a new spirit energy is born. Soon, you will live again as a part of me.

Flashback ended.

Aerith: Did you see it?

Cid: Hey hey! Wh, what's the catch?

Cloud: ...Where is the room with the pictures on the walls?

Aerith: Almost there...

Cloud: Sephiroth is here, right? No matter what he thinks, it's going to end
here. I'm taking him out!

Cid: All right! Guess you youngsters gotta be enthusiastic like that!

Moving on, they arrived at the rooms with pictures.

Aerith: This is the room with the murals...

Cloud: Where are you!? Sephiroth!!

Sephiroth: So cold. I am always by your side. Come. Splendid. A treasure house
of knowledge...

Cloud: I don't understand what you're saying!

Sephiroth: Look well.

Cloud: At what!?

Sephiroth: At that which adds to the knowledge of... I am becoming one with the
Planet.

Sephiroth says something.

Sephiroth: Soon... we will become one.

Aerith: How do you intend to become one with the Planet?

Sephiroth: It's simple. Once the Planet is hurt, it gathers Spirit Energy to
heal the injury. The amount of energy gathered depends on the size of the
injury. ...What would happen if there was an injury that threatened the very
life of the Planet? Think how much energy would be gathered! Ha ha ha. And at
the center of that injury, will be me. All that boundless energy will be mine.
By merging with all the energy of the Planet, I will become a new life form, a
new existence. Melding with the Planet... I will cease to exist as I am now...
Only to be reborn as a 'God' to rule over every soul.

Aerith: An injury powerful enough to destroy the Planet? Injure... the Planet?

Sephiroth: Behold the mural. The Ultimate Destructive Magic... Meteor.

Cloud: That'll never happen!

???: Wake up!

While Cloud's group search for Sephiroth...

Aerith: Cloud!!

Cid: What the hell is going on!

Cloud: (freaking out) Ha ha ha... Black Materia. Ha ha ha... Call Meteor.

Aerith: Cloud!! Get a hold of yourself!

Cloud: Cloud... I'm... Cloud... How should I? ...I remember! I remember my way.

Aerith: ...Cloud.

Cloud: (back to his sense) Mm? What's wrong? Is something wrong?

Aerith: ...It's nothing so don't worry about it. Right, Cloud! It's nothing.
Sephiroth got away.

Cloud: ...Don't worry about it. I understood what he was saying. So this must
be Meteor, right?

Cid: I don't know what the hell it is but it's falling from the sky? Hmpf! It's
not even an omen.

Aerith: ...this must be magic. Just what Sephiroth was saying. The Ultimate
Destructive Magic, Meteor. It finds small drifting planets with its magic. And
then collides with them. This Planet might get wiped out entirely...

Cloud: (heard a roar) Sephiroth!?

Sephiroth: Ha ha ha... It's not me.

Cloud's group encountered Red Dragon. After killing it.

Cloud: Any sign of Sephiroth?

Aerith: He disappeared.

Cloud's group examines the treasure.

Cloud: What is this?

Aerith: There's something written on it. ...B.l.a.c.k.......M.a.t.e.r.i.a.

Cloud: Black Materia!!

Aerith: Hey! ...Black Materia. What should we do, Cloud?

Cloud: Take it.

Aerith: Wait a minute, I'll ask! I don't understand...... What? Really!? They
said that the Temple itself is the Black Materia.

Cloud: What do they mean?

Aerith: So, this whole building is the Black Materia?

Cloud: This huge Temple? This is the Black Materia!? Then no one could take it.

Aerith: Hmm, it's pretty hard. You see this is a device, which gets smaller
each time you solve a puzzle. As the model becomes smaller, you become smaller
too. Until it's small enough to fit in the palm of your hand.

Cloud: So, if we solve the puzzles, the Black Materia will get smaller and
smaller and we can take it out?

Aerith: Yes, but there's one thing... You can only answer the puzzles inside
the Temple. So, anyone who solves the puzzle will be crushed by the Temple.

Cloud: I see... the Ancients didn't want dangerous magic to betaken out of the
Temple so easily...

Cid: Guess stuff this dangerous is best left alone?

Cloud: No. We've got to think of a way to get it out. Because Sephiroth has
lots of different flunkies. It's nothing to him to throw their lives away to
get the Black Materia. This place isn't safe.

Aeris: So what are we going to do?

Cloud's PHS rang and he picked it up.

Cait Sith: Hi, Cloud. This is Cait Sith. I overheard the whole story! Don't
forget about me. Everything you said makes perfect sense! You can use my
stuffed body for the future of the Planet.

Cloud: We can't let Sephiroth get his hands on the Black Materia. And we can't
let the Shinra get theirs on it either.

Cait Sith: But Cloud. There's really nothing else you can do. Everyone, please
trust me.

Cloud: I guess we have no choice.

Cait Sith: All righty then! Leave it all to me! Please hurry, you've got to get
out of here! I'll be waiting at the exit!

On their way out, Cloud tried to open the exit door.

Cloud: It's warm... This isn't good...

Aerith: Cloud... ...behind you.

Cloud's group encountered Demon's Gate. After destroying it, Cait Sith opened
the door.

Cait Sith: Sorry to keep you waiting!! It's me!! I'll handle the rest! Well,
everyone... Take care of yourselves!

Aerith: Cait Sith... Come on, Cloud... Say something.

Cloud: I'm not good at this.

Cait Sith: Mmm, I understand. I feel the same too.

Aerith: Why don't you read our fortunes?

Cait Sith: Say, that's right... I haven't done it in a while, huh? I'm so
excited. Right or wrong, I'm still the same 'ol me. Now, what should I predict?

Aerith: Hmm, let's see how compatible Cloud and I are!

Cait Sith: That'll cost ya. Exactly one date! Here I go! This isn't good. I
can't say it. Poor Tifa.

Aerith: No! Tell me! I promise I won't get mad!

Cait Sith: Is that so? Then I'll tell you. Looks good. You are perfect for each
other! Aeris's star and Cloud's star! They show a great future! Cloud, I'll be
your matchmaker, preacher... I'll do whatever you want me to! You just call me
when it all happens! Thank you for believing in me, know that I was a spy. This
is the final, final farewell!

Aerith: Be strong Cait Sith!!

Cloud's group gets out immediately and as Cait Sith goes in the treasure room.

Cait Sith: She told me to 'Be strong'. I feel so happy. Owwww...... (tripped)
What happened? I can protect the Planet too! I'm kinda embarrassed... There's
plenty of stuffed toys like my body around, but there's only one me! Don't
forget me even if another Cait Sith comes along. Good bye, then! I guess I'm
off to save the Planet...

Cait Sith sacrificed his artificial body and the Temple disappeared. Cloud's
group saw a large gap with a Black Materia.

Cloud: That's the Black Materia...

Cid: I'm gonna have a smoke out here! Ahhh!! It's really something, having a
smoke at a place like this.

Cloud goes down the gap.

Cloud: As long as we have this, Sephiroth won't be able to use Meteor.

Cloud picked up the Black Materia.

Cloud: Mmm? Can you guys use it?

Aerith: Nope, we can't use it right now. You need great spiritual power to use
it.

Cloud: You mean lots of Spiritual energy?

Aerith: That's right. One person's power alone won't do it. Somewhere special.
Where there's plenty of the Planet's energy... Oh yeah! The Promised Land!!

Cloud: The Promised Land!! No, but...

Aerith: Sephiroth is different. He's not an Ancient.

Cloud: He shouldn't be able to find the Promised Land.

Sephiroth: ...Ah, but I have. I'm far superior to the Ancients. I became a
traveler of the Lifestream and gained the knowledge and wisdom of the Ancients.
And soon, I will create the future.

Aerith: I won't let you do it! The future is not only yours!

Sephiroth: Ha, ha, ha... I wonder? Wake up!

Cloud: Shut up!

Cloud's controlled soul appeared.

Sephiroth: There, Cloud... good boy.

Cloud: The... Noise... Wa...... aaaa...... aa...

Cloud's controlled by Sephiroth and gave the Black Materia to him.

Sephiroth: ......Well done.

Sephiroth disappeared. Later....

Aerith: Cloud, are you all right?

Cloud: ...I gave the Black Materia to Sephiroth...? Wha... what did I do...
tell me, Aeris.

Aerith: Cloud... be strong, OK?

Cloud: Urrrrrrgh... What have I done!?

Aerith: Cloud... you haven't done anything. It's not your fault.

Cloud begins to attack Aerith.

Cloud: I...! I'm-----!

Cid: Hey, EY!!

Cait Sith: Oops! This looks like I came at a bad time! I'm Cait Sith No. 2
Right pleased to meet you all!

Cid: Cloud! What the hell are you doing!?

Cloud collapsed. In his dreams...

Cloud: Everything is white... What did I do? I don't remember anything... My
memory... since when...? If everything's a dream, don't wake me.

Aerith: Cloud, can you hear me?

Cloud: Yeah, I hear you. Sorry for what happened.

Aerith: Don't worry about it.

Cloud: ...I can't help it...

Aerith: Oh... Then, why don't you REALLY worry about it? And let me take care
of it yourself. So you don't have a breakdown, okay?

Cloud: What is this place?

Aerith: This forest leads to the City of the Ancients... and is called the
Sleeping Forest. It's only a matter of time before Sephiroth uses Meteor.
That's why I'm going to protect it. Only a survivor of the Cetra, like me, can
do it. This secret is just up here. At least it should be. ...I feel it. It
feels like I'm being led by something. Then, I'll be going now. I'll come back
when it's all over.

Cloud: Aerith?

Aerith left, but Cloud couldn't move towards her.

Sephiroth: Hmm...... She's thinking of interfering? She will be a difficult
one, don't you think? We must stop that girl soon.

Cloud woke up in Gongaga Village.

Barret: You look like you was havin' a nightmare. How are you feeling?

Cloud: I seem to be OK.

Barret: That's good. Man, I didn't know what was gonna happen.

Tifa: You know, Cloud. Aerith is gone.

Barret: Everyone's out looking for Aerith.

Cloud: ......City of the Ancients. Aeris is headed there.

Barret: By herself!? Why did she go by herself!? Hey, we're goin' too.

Cloud: Only the Ancients, only Aerith can save us from the Meteor...

Tifa: Then we must go. What'll we do if something happens to Aerith? If
Sephiroth finds her, she's in trouble.

Cloud: Sephiroth... already knows.

Barret: Hey! Why are you still sittin' around?

Tifa: Let's go, Cloud.

Cloud: No. I might lose it again. If Sephiroth comes near me I might......

Barret: Yeah, goddammit! It's 'cuz of you that Sephiroth got the Black Materia
in the first place. It's your damn fault!

Cloud: My fault?

Barret: I know you got problems... hell, we all do. But you don't ever
understand yourself. But you gotta understand that there ain't no gettin' offa
this train we're on, till we get to the end of the line.

Tifa: Cloud, we came this far... Aren't you going to settle up with Sephiroth?

Cloud: No... I'm afraid. If this keeps up, I may go crazy! I'm afraid...

Barret: Just a damn jackass, that's what you are... Yo, jes' think about it...
How many people in this world do ya think really understand themselves? People
get depressed in life because they don't know what's up. But, they go on
living. They don't run away... Isn't that how it is?

Tifa: Cloud... you'll come with us, right? I believe in you.

Tifa and Barret left.

Cloud: What... am I supposed to do? Pull out of here? Pull out? ...To where?

Tifa: Cloud...

Barret: Wait a minute, Tifa. Give him a little time. He has to decide this on
his own. You believe in Cloud... right?

Cloud: ......I'm afraid to find out the truth...? But...... why?

Cloud met up with Tifa and Barret.

Tifa: Cloud...

Barret: Hey, how are you? I just wanna know, which is it gonna be? You wanna
find out about yourself? Or are you afraid to find out? Either way, you stay
around here and about all you can do is worry about it. Even if you do go nuts
again when you see Sephiroth... If it happens, it happens. I'll go upside your
spikey white head and bring you back to normal!

Tifa: Cloud, it'll be all right. We're all with you.

Cloud: But...

Barret: If it happens, it happens. Don't worry 'bout it.

Cloud: ...You're ...right. ......He's right, isn't he?

Tifa: Come on, let's go and find Aeris...?

Cloud replaces Tifa with Cid and Cloud's group head to Bone Village where he
paid the staff to excavate the Lunar Harp. After the workers dig the Lunar
Harp, next morning, Cloud’s group opened the treasure chest and got a Lunar
Harp. Cloud's group head to the Sleeping Forest and the Lunar Harp revived the
forest. Cloud's group can move on and in the City of the Ancients. In there,
they decided to take a break and find a house.

Barret: Heh, there's a bed.

Cid: I'm beat. Why don't we get some rest?

After resting for a while, Cloud woke up in the nighttime.

Cloud: I feel it...

Barret: What is it?

Cloud: Aerith is here, ...and so is Sephiroth.

Barret: Wh, what! Sephiroth!?

Cid: Hey, how do you know!?

Cloud: ...it's not an excuse. I feel it in my soul.

Barret: Then we better get up offa our lazy asses!!

Cloud: ...right. Let's hurry and find Aeris.

Cloud's group head to the City and in that area, Cloud goes to see Aerith who
is locked in prayer while the other waits. Cloud's controlled and he pulled his
sword out and before he can strike Aerith with it...

Cid: Cloud!

Barret: Stop it!!

Cloud: Ugh... what are you making me do.

We watch a movie of Aerith praying and then Sephiroth with the Masamune came
down, impales Aerith through the stomach, smiles, and pulled the sword out of
Aerith. Aerith slumps to the floor, her hairband came off, releasing her
braided hair and a white materia fell into the water. Aerith died at the scene.

Cloud: ...Aerith. This can't be real!

Sephiroth: Do not worry. Soon the girl will become part of the Planet's energy.
All that is left is to go North. The 'Promised Land' waits for me over the
snowy fields. There I will become a new being by uniting with the planet. As
will this girl......

Cloud: ...Shut up. The cycle of nature and your stupid plan don't mean a thing.
Aerith is gone. Aerith will no longer talk, no longer laugh, cry...... or get
angry...... What about us...... what are WE supposed to do? What about my pain?
My fingers are tingling. My mouth is dry. My eyes are burning!

Sephiroth: What are you saying? Are you trying to tell me you have feelings too?

Cloud: Of course! Who do you think I am!?

Sephiroth: Ha, ha, ha...... Stop acting as if you were sad. There's no need to
act as though you're angry either. Because, Cloud. You are...

Sephiroth disappears and left another Jenova behind. Cloud’s group fights
Jenove-LIFE.  After Cloud’s group defeated Jenova-LIFE...

Jenova: Because, you are...... a puppet.

Cloud: I'm...... a puppet?

The screen goes back to Cloud's group who pays their last respects to Aerith.
Cloud took her body and placed it in the ocean. We watch a movie of Cloud
putting Aerith's body into the ocean and she sank to the bottom to rest in
peace. Later, the camera shows Cloud's group inside one of the huts the City of
the Ancients.

Cloud: Everyone, listen to me. I'm Cloud, ex-SOLDIER, born in Nibelheim. I came
to settle up with Sephiroth.

Cid: I heard that before.

Cloud: I came here by my own free will... Or so I thought. However......To tell
the truth, I'm afraid of myself. ...There is a part of me that I don't
understand. That part that made me give the Black Materia to Sephiroth. If you
hadn't stopped me, Aerith might have been......There's something inside of me.
A who is not really me. That's why I should quit this journey. Before I do
something terrible. But I am going. He destroyed my hometown five years ago,
killed Aerith, and is now trying to destroy the Planet. I'll never forgive...
Sephiroth. I... I must go on. ... I have a favor to ask of you. Will you all
come with me? ...to save me from doing something terrible.

Barret: ...I dunno, man...

Cloud: I don't know how Aerith tried to save the planet from the Meteor. And I
guess now, we'll never know. But! We still have a chance. We must get that
Black Materia back before Sephiroth uses it. Let's go.

END OF DISC 1
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
03: DISC 2 Game Script

Cloud's group went outside. Outside of the hut...

Cid: ...Which way did that creep Sephiroth go!?

Cloud: (shock) ...ugh. (saw Sephiroth's illusion)

Barret: Hey, you awright?

Cloud: Hmmm... Sephiroth said to me... Head North...... ...past the Snowy
Fields......

Cloud's group exits the City of the Ancients and proceeds to Icicle Inn. Upon
arrival, the camera shows Elena from distance of Cloud’s group.

Elena: There they are, hurry!!

Shinra Soldier: Yes ma'am!!

Elena: Cloud... huff... wheeze. I won't let you go any further!

Cloud: What's down there?

Elena: It's a SE-CR-ET. It really doesn't matter! But you really got guts doin'
my boss in like that!

Cloud: You mean Boss...... Tseng? That wasn't us. Sephiroth did it.

Elena: No! Don't think you can fool me, liar!

Cloud: I'm not lying... it was Sephiroth.

Elena: Don't try to act innocent. I'll never forget it!!

Cloud: Oh, man...

Elena: Looks like talking alone won't cut it. You're going to have to feel some
pain!

Shinra soldier: Just you... and me!!

Elena: No, I can handle him! There's no way he can avoid my punch.

Shinra soldier: What? Yeah......

Elena attempts to throw a punch at Cloud. Cloud evaded her attack and Elena
rolls out of the Icicle Inn.

Shinra soldier: Ele... Elena!?

After that, Cloud’s group took the Glacier Map and the Snowboard from the kid.
Cloud's group proceeds to the slope area and began snowboarding. After reaching
the next area that, crash into Great Glacier.

Cloud: Ugh... I guess we're still in one piece. Everyone all right?

Barret: Of course.

Cid: I can't be doin' this! Damn!

Cloud: So where did we land? We've jumped pretty far...

Barret: Hey, what's that!? They just gave you something, right?

Cloud: It sure is cold. We'll freeze if we stay here any longer.

Cloud's group manages to make their way to Holzoff's house. Inside...

Holzoff: Now, this is a surprise!! How many years has it been since I last saw
anyone here...? Oh, excuse me! My name is Holzoff. I've lived here for 20 years
now. Your mind listening to the stories of a lonely climber? Why don't we go to
the next room and sit down.

Later, in the next room...

Holzoff: You ever hear about those who challenged the cliff?

Cloud: No.

Holzoff: There's an old legend that says something fell from the sky here a
long time ago. That's what's supposed to have pushed the land up and formed
this cliff. 30 Years ago, Yamski and I took this cliff on to see what was on
the other side. But, we weren't prepared for it. We did expect the temperature
to be low but... On that cliff, there's always a biting cold wind. The cold air
lowers your body temperature. Yamski, was below me. He cut his own rope...
...and I didn't even notice... Ever since then, I've settled here... continuing
to challenge the cliff, and provide warning and shelter to my fellow climbers.
If you're going to climb the cliff, there's 2 precautions you'll need to take.
First, check your route... It's hard to find because of all the snow. Second,
once you get to a ledge, make sure you warm yourselves up. Understand?

Cloud: Yes.

Holzoff: You must've used a lot of energy getting up here... Better get some
rest before you head out.

Cloud's group get some rest. Later, Cloud exits Holzoff’s house and met up with
his group.

Barret: (shivering) You know, I've been thinkin'...?

Cloud: What is it?

Barret: ...Seein' a place like this, makes you realize how awesome nature is.
But, if anyone ever told me to live here, I'd tell them to...you know... I tell
you one thing though, if I did have to live here I'd change things around 'n'
make it better. I guess the total opposite of this would be...... Midgar. When
you think of it that way, Shinra don't seem so bad... Uuuuuurrrrrgh!! What the
hell am I sayin'!? The Shinra, not bad!?

Cloud: We'll secure the route. You come up later.

Cloud’s group proceeds to Gaea's Cliff. Upon arrival and later, Cloud’s group
encounters Schizo. Cloud’s group fights Schizo. After Cloud’s group defeats
Schizo, they proceed to the top area where the crater is. We watch a movie of
the crater with its magical source coming out of it.

Cloud: An old crater... Something fell out of the sky and crashed down
here...... Leaving a scar on the planet.

Barret: So all this energy's gathered here for the planet to heal itself?

Cloud: Sephiroth took that energy and is trying to use Meteor. Next time the
wound won't be so small.

As Cloud's group approaches the crater…

Tifa: Cloud, wait for me!! Please take me with you. You're going to have it out
with Sephiroth, aren't you? Because of Sephiroth, I, too, have lost many
things, so please take me along. Don't say no. Okay?......

Cloud: It can't be helped......

Cloud replaced Barret with Tifa. Cloud’s group moves on. In the next area…

Cloud: That's......!!!

Meanwhile in the Airship with Rufus...

Rufus: So, I finally found you.

Scarlet: Kyaa haa hah. Kyaa haa hah haa hah haa......... hah. This is
incredible......

Heidegger: This is the Promised Land the President has been searching for!!

Rufus: But, I'll be the one who gets it. Sorry, old man.

Hojo: Heh heh heh...... That land is no one's. It's where the Reunion will take
place...... They will all gather here...... I wonder if we'll see......
Sephiroth?

The camera switches back to Cloud's group. Cloud’s group approaches the area
where Sephiroth is.

Sephiroth: This is the end...for all of you.

Sephiroth slashed away two black figures.

Cloud: Sephiroth!!

Cid: This is the end!

Sephiroth: You're right. This is the end of this body's usefulness.

Sephiroth vanishes from the scene.

Cloud: He disappeared!?

Tifa: He might still be nearby……

???: Our purpose is to deliver the Black Materia to our master.

Cloud: Our...?

Cid: Hey, hey! What's goin' on?

???: Those who carry Jenova's cells...

Cloud: Master...!?

???: Of course... Sephiroth. Heh, heh, heh...

Sephiroth left a Jenova for Cloud's group to fight. Cloud's group fights
Jenova-DEATH. After Cloud’s group defeats Jenova-DEATH…

Cloud: Jenova's cells... ...hmm. So that's what this is all about. The Jenova
Reunion...

Tifa: Not Sephiroth!? You mean all this time it wasn't Sephiroth we've been
after?

Cloud: I'll explain later. Right now, the only thing I'm thinking about is
beating Sephiroth.

Tifa: But Sephiroth is......

Cloud: He's here. The real Sephiroth is just beyond here. It's both incredibly
wicked and cruel... But it's releasing a powerfully strong will from deep
within this planet's wound.

Cloud picked up the Black Materia.

Cloud: ...The Black Materia is back in our hands. Now all we have to do is
defeat Sephiroth and that'll be the end of it.

Tifa: We'd better not take the Black Materia any further. Why don't you give it
to someone else to hold on to?

Cloud gave the Black Materia to Barret.

Barret: Damn, man! ...Pressure's on now.

Cloud: Don't give it to ANYONE. I'm counting on you.

Tifa: Let's find Sephiroth!!

Cloud: We're going in first! You guys stay and keep watch.

Cloud's group moves on.

Tifa: What is this? What happened?

Cloud: Calm down, Tifa. Sephiroth is near. Anything could happen.

Tifa: Nibelheim...

Cid: What the hell? Why Nibelheim!?

Cloud: This is an illusion Sephiroth made up. He's trying to confuse us. It'll
be all right. As long as we know it's an illusion, there's nothing to be afraid
of. Come on, let's keep going.

Tifa: Yeah, you're right... Look!!

The camera switches to the flashback of Sephiroth and folks.

Sephiroth: All right, let's go.

Cid: Cloud's not here......

Tifa: Stop... Sephiroth.

Cloud: This is so stupid...

The flashback characters disappeared from the scene.

Tifa: Cloud... It's just an illusion. Don't worry about it...

Another illusion appeared at the scene.

Cloud: What's... next?

Tifa: Stop it already!!

Cid: This is terrible...

Cloud: ...This is what actually happened five years ago. But... It's probably
not me that's going to come out of the Shinra mansion. He's going to try and
show us another stupid illusion. See... didn't I tell you?

Zangan: Hey it's you! You're still sane, right? Then come over here and help me!

Tifa: I don't want to... watch this. Cloud... don't watch.

Zangan: I'll check this house. You check that one over there!

Cloud: ...What's wrong, Tifa? I told you before, right? As long as we know that
it's just an illusion, there's no need to be scared.

Cid: (to a illusion man lying down) Hey...... hey you! You alright!? Damn! This
was all made up.

Cloud: Sephiroth! I know you're listening! I know what you want to say! That I
wasn't in Nibelheim five years ago. That's it, isn't it?

Sephiroth: I see you finally understand.

Cloud: What you are trying to say is that you want to confuse me, right?
But...even making me see those things won't affect me. I remember it all. The
heat of the fire... the pain in my body... and in my heart!

Sephiroth: Oh, is that so? You are just a puppet... You have no heart... and
cannot feel any pain... How can there be any meaning in the memory of such a
being? What I have shown you is reality. What you remember, this is the
illusion. ...Do you understand?

Cloud: I don't want to understand. But, I want to ask you one thing. Why... why
are you doing this?

Sephiroth: Ha, ha, ha...... I want to take you back to your real self. The one
who gave me the Black Materia that day... Who would have ever thought a failed
experiment would prove so useful? Hojo would die if he knew.

Cloud: Hojo!? What does he have to do with me!?

Sephiroth: Five years ago you were... ...constructed by Hojo, piece by piece,
right after Nibelheim was burnt. A puppet made up of vibrant Jenova cells, her
knowledge, and the power of the Mako. An incomplete Sephiroth-clone. Not even
given a number. ...That is your reality. Ha, ha, ha......

Tifa: Cloud... Don't listen to him... Close your ears! Close your eyes!

Cloud: What's wrong, Tifa? I'm not affected by it. ...I wasn't paying attention
to him.

Tifa: All that talk of Hojo constructing you is a lie. Don't we have our
memories together? Being kids together, starlit night...

Sephiroth: Ha, ha, ha... Tifa... Why are you so worried and scared by those
words? Hmm... Shall I show everyone here what's in your heart? Ha, ha, ha...
You look like you're not feeling well.

Cloud: ...Tifa? Is Sephiroth right?

Tifa: Cloud...

Cloud: Why are you so scared? Don't worry about me. I'm all right. No matter
how confused I am, I'll never believe a word that Sephiroth says. It's true
that sometimes I can't figure out who I am. There's a lot of things muddled up
in my memories. But, Tifa...... But you said 'Long time no see, Cloud' right?
Those words will always support me. I am the one you grew up with. I'm Cloud of
Nibelheim. No matter how much I lose faith in myself, that is the truth. That's
why you shouldn't be so scared. No matter what anyone else says to me, it's
your attitude that counts...

Tifa: No, that's not true, Cloud......

Cloud: What's not? Aren't I the same Cloud you grew up with?

Tifa: That's not what I mean... I don't know how to say it... Cloud, I need
same time... Just give me a little time...

Sephiroth: Cloud... Don't blame Tifa. The ability to change one's looks, voice,
and words, is the power of Jenova. Inside of you, Jenova has merged with Tifa's
memories, creating you. Out of Tifa's memory...... A boy named Cloud might've
just been a part of them.

Tifa: Cloud... Please... don't think right now.

Sephiroth: Ha, ha, ha...... Think, Cloud? ...Cloud? Ha, ha, ha...... Oh, excuse
me. You never had a name...

Cloud: Shut up... Sephiroth.

Sephiroth: You still don't understand? Then... Do you remember the picture that
we took before we headed for Mt. Nibel? ...Tifa, you remember, right? But there
is no way he would know. Now... what happened to that picture? ......is this
it? ...Do you want to see it? It turned out pretty good.

Tifa: Cloud... don't...

Cloud: I... should be in the picture. Even if I'm not in there, no worry. This
is just an illusory world Sephiroth made up.

Cloud looked at the picture that Sephiroth picked up from the cameraman who's
lying down. As Cloud looked, it turned out to be Zack, Tifa, and Sephiroth.

Cloud: ...Just as I thought. This picture's a fake. The truth is in my memory.
...Five years ago, I came back to Nibelheim, to inspect the reactor. I was
sixteen. The town hadn't changed at all. What did I do...? Oh yeah... I spent
the night and went to the reactor in Mt. Nibel. I was excited about it. Because
that was my first mission after becoming First Class in SOLDIER. (quick flash)
...SOLDIER, First Class?...SOLDIER? When did I enter SOLDIER? (holding his
head) How did I join SOLDIER? Why... why can't I remember? I'm... I'm... That's
right......I didn't have to worry about it, because I was...

Tifa: ......Cloud?

Cloud: Let's go, Tifa. I'm... I'm all right.

Later in the center of the Crater with Rufus and his group...

Scarlet: Wow!! That's amazing! It's all Materia!!

Rufus: The outside is rich with Mako energy. The inside is a treasure grove of
Materia. This truly is the Promised Land.

Hojo: There is no such thing as the Promised Land. It's a legend... an old
wives tale... ...it's utterly ridiculous.

Rufus: Everything's as I imagined it to be. Isn't it splendid? It is that kind
of dullness that makes you a second-rate scientist. What's happening?

Scarlet: It's coming from within' the wall! Something's in there! It's moving!

Hojo: Weapon... Then it really does exist... I didn't believe in it.

Rufus: What does this mean?

Hojo: ...Weapon. Monsters created by the Planet. It appears when the Planet is
in danger, reducing everything to nothingness. That's what was stated in
Professor Gast's report.

Rufus: I never saw that report... Where is it?

Hojo: Here, right here.

Rufus: You keep a lot of things to yourself.

Meanwhile, Barret is still holding the Black Materia.

Barret: Are Cloud and the others awright? But what's up with that? One little
piece of materia, destroying the planet...

Suddenly, the area is darkened.

Barret: What the......? The hell was that? H, huh!? Hey... Guys! Where are we?
Where did we end up?

Tifa appeared at the scene.

Tifa: Barret, you're here! I'm so glad!!

Barret: Tifa!! Something's weird here. It got pitch black all of a sudden, and
everyone disappeared!

Tifa?: Everyone's waiting! Cloud's in trouble! Please come. Help us! Over there!

Barret: Yea... yeah! I don't know what's goin' on, but let's just get on with
it.

Tifa reverts to Sephiroth.

Sephiroth: ......hee hee hee... And remember... the Black Materia!

Meanwhile at the center of the Crater...

Scarlet: Mr. President... I've got a bad feeling about this place...

Rufus: Hmm... maybe we should go back to our ship now. We need to prepare for
the inspection anyway.

Cloud suddenly appeared at the scene.

Scarlet: Hey!! Where did you come from?

Cloud: ...don't know...This place is going to get rough. Better leave things to
me and get out of here while you still can!!

Rufus: Leave things to you? Hmph... I don't know what you mean.

Cloud: This is where the Reunion is happening. Where everything begins and ends.

Tifa: Cloud!!

Barret: Hey! We're here to help you!

Cloud: Thanks... Barret. Where's the Black Materia?

Tifa: Cloud!!

Barret: It's safe. I have it.

Cloud: I'll take it from here. Give me the ... Black Materia.

Tifa: You can't hear my voice?

Barret: You alright? Okay then, here. Had a lot of pressure holding this thing.

Tifa: No! Don't! Please stop Cloud!!

Cloud: Thanks. ......leave the rest to me.

The camera shows a flash of Sephiroth told Cloud to give the Black Materia to
him.

Cloud: Everyone, thanks for everything. And... I'm sorry. (to Rufus and folks)
...Sorry. (to his group) ...Sorry. (to Tifa) Especially you, Tifa. I'm really
sorry. You've been so good to me...... I don't know what to say... I never
lived up to being 'Cloud'. Tifa...... Maybe one day you'll meet the real
'Cloud'.

Hojo: Ha, ha, ha... this is perfect!!! It means that my experiment was a
complete success. What number were you? Huh? Where is your tattoo?

Cloud: Professor Hojo... I don't have a number. You didn't give me one because
you said I was a failed experiment.

Hojo: What the--? You mean only a failure made it here?

Cloud: Professor... please give me a number. Please, Professor...

Hojo: Shut up, miserable failure...

Cloud levitated up all the way to the top and he is actually controlled by
Sephiroth.

Rufus: Who... was that?

Hojo: He's a Sephiroth clone I created after the real Sephiroth died five years
ago. Jenova cells and Mako, with my knowledge and skills, have been combined
with science and nature to bring him to life. ...I'm not wild about the failure
part, but the Jenova Reunion Theory has now been proven. You see, even if
Jenova's body is dismembered, it will eventually become one again. That's what
is meant by Jenova's Reunion to start. Five years have passed, and now the
Clones have began to return. I thought the Clones would begin to gather at
Midgar where Jenova is stored. But my predictions were not entirely correct.
Jenova itself began to move away from the Shinra Building. But being a genius
that I am, I soon figured it out. You see it was all Sephiroth's doing.
Sephiroth is not just content to diffuse his will into the Lifestream; he wants
to manipulate the Clones itself.

Cloud: (to himself while reacting strangely) Yes, that was how it got started.

Hojo: I wondered where the clones were going, but I was never able to figure it
out.

Cloud: (to himself and stands upside down on a ceiling) I couldn't figure it
out, either.

Hojo: The one thing that I did know was that Sephiroth was at their final
destination.

Cloud: I wasn't pursuing Sephiroth. I was being summoned by Sephiroth. All the
anger and hatred I bore him, made it impossible for me to ever forget him. That
and what he gave me. Sephiroth? I'm here. And I brought you the Black Materia.
Show yourself to me. Where are you? Sephiroth... So we finally meet again.

We watch a movie of something from the ceiling coming down.

Hojo: Did you see it!! It's Sephiroth! So he IS here! This is perfect! Both
Jenova's Reunion and Sephiroth's will! They won't be diffused into the
Lifestream, but gathered here! Mwa, haa, ha,......

Tifa: What are you so happy about, Professor? You know what this means, don't
you? Cloud has the Black Materia! Sephiroth is going to summon Meteor! Every
single person is going to die!

Rufus: Whatever I say is too little... too late...... We must evacuate. I want
you all to come with me. There is still much more I want to hear.

Barret: Yo! Cloud! Knock it off!

Tifa: Cloud------!!

We watch a movie of Cloud giving the Black Materia to Sephiroth. The camera
switches to the
Airship. As it gets away, Weapons were released from the Crater. One of the
Weapon's attack knocked Tifa unconscious. The Airship flies away to Junon.
Meanwhile in Tifa's dream...

Tifa: Cloud... Cloud... ......I didn't know what to do. I was always like
that...

Tifa sees Cloud at the Train Station.

Guard: What's the matter?

Cloud: Ohhh...

Guard: ......poor kid.

Cloud: Ooouugh......

Tifa: Are you all right?

Cloud: Oo... uh... agh Uh... uh... Tifa...?

Tifa: ...? Tifa! ...............? Oh, Cloud!

Cloud: That's right. I'm Cloud.

Tifa: Is it really you, Cloud? I never thought I'd find you here!

Cloud: Yeah, it's been a while.

Tifa: What happened to you? You don't look well.

Cloud: ......Yeah? It's nothing. I'm okay.

Tifa: How long has it been?

Cloud: (after some shocks) Five years.

Tifa: ............

Cloud: What is it?

Tifa: ...it's really been a long time. Actually, it's been seven years. You got
your wish and joined SOLDIER, quit after the Sephiroth incident, and now you're
a mercenary... You told me a lot about what happened after you left
Nibelheim... But... Something's wrong. I felt there was something strange about
the things you talked about. All the things you didn't know that you should.
And other things you shouldn't know that you did... I wanted to make sure...
But then I heard... you were going far away... And I didn't want that... ...I
didn't know what to do. So, I thought I need more time. And that's why I told
you about the AVALANCHE job. I wanted to be with you, watch you.

The camera switches to Barret and Tifa locked in a lab in Junon.

Tifa: (regaining consciousness) ...ding......

Barret: Huh?

Tifa: The glare...

Barret: You'll be better soon. You've been a sleep for a long time.

Tifa: I'm...... hungry...

Barret: Hey, why don't you ask? About him.

Tifa: (woke up) ...Because I'm scared.

Barret: Don't worry. I don't know what happened to Cloud either. Guess I
shouldn't tell you not to worry... None of them know if he's all right either.

Tifa: He's still... alive, right? How long... was I asleep?

Barret: Lessee now...... Must've been about 7 days.

Tifa: What about Sephiroth?

Barret: You ain't over it yet. Remember that huge light, in the Northern Cave?
Since then, the crater's been surrounded by a huge barrier of light. Everyone
knows Sephiroth sleeps in that big hole, protected by the barrier. We can't do
a damn thing about it. We just gonna wait till he wakes up. An' on topa that,
some huge monster called Weapon's been on a rampage.

Tifa: ...Weapon?

Barret: Remember that huge monster that was with Sephiroth, at the bottom of
the crater? Well it's up here now. They say it's some legendary monster from
the past.

Tifa: Weapon... is protecting Sephiroth?

Barret: Dunno. But he's up here goin' around tearin' shit up. Right now Rufus'
fightin' it. I hate to say it, but he's got guts. We shoulda been the ones to
destroy it, but we ain't got no time...

Tifa: Time... ...Hey! How about Meteor?

We watch a movie of Barret opening the window and watches Meteor about to
approach the Planet.

Tifa: Do we have to give up?

Barret: ...Dunno.

Rufus appeared at the scene.

Rufus: I thought Cloud would show up to save you all... Professor Hojo wanted
to check up on Cloud, too.

Tifa: What are you going to do to Cloud?

Rufus: Sephiroth's alter ego... Meteor has been summoned... Essentially, it's
all but over now. So, there's no need for you now. No, maybe there is an
important task for you...

Heidegger appeared at the scene.

Heidegger: President! Preparations for the public execution are complete.

Barret: (tensed up) Execution!? What're ya gonna get by executin' us?

Rufus: You are to be executed for causing this situation. People are ignorant.
They'll feel better as long as someone is punished.

Barret: (angered) I take back what little praise I had for this damn jackass!

Rufus: Well, enjoy your last moments together.

Heidegger: I'll tie you arms now.

Later, Barret and Tifa with their arms bonded to their back were forced to the
execution room. Upon arrival…

Scarlet: Is everyone here? These are the ones who brought this madness into the
world!

Barret: The hell are these people?

Scarlet: We will be broadcasting your miserable deaths live on national
television.

Fat Man: Scarlet, why a public execution in this day and age?

Scarlet: With the chaos resulting from the Meteor reports, we desperately need
to rally public support... it's better that we punish somebody, anybody.

Tifa: You make me sick...

Scarlet: Ha, ha, ha, ha! They'll never admit it, but everyone loves this stuff!
We'll start with this girl.

Barret: If you've gotta do it... do me first!

Scarlet: Camera, this way! Make sure you get this, the audience just eats up
tearful goodbyes!

Inside the gas chamber...

Tifa: What are you doing!?

Scarlet: This is my special gas chamber. Take your time, and enjoy a slow
painful death.

The Shinra soldier unbonds Tifa's arm and Scarlet pushed her into the chair and
strapped her arms to the chair.

Scarlet: Stuck up #*&$#*$!!

Scarlet slapped Tifa in the face and knocked her out. Just as the Shinra
soldier and Scarlet exits the gas chamber, a key was dropped by the Shinra
soldier without notice. The camera switches to the room with the audience.

Scarlet: Well now, the show's about to begin. Ha, ha, ha!

Just as the execution was about to start…

Radio Announcement: Emergency! Emergency! Weapon's approaching! Attention all
military personnel: take your positions!

Fat Man: Oh no! It's Weapon!

Man: Run!

The audience starts running away from the scene.

Scarlet: Hey, hey all of you! Damn! Why now?

Fat Man: How does it feel now, Scarlet?

Scarlet: Hmm, so you didn't run? I'm impressed. How do I feel? Right now......

The fat man unleashes sleeping gas towards Scarlet.

Scarlett: Nnaaaaaahhhh!

Scarlet got knocked out.

Barret: Huh!? Sleeping gas?

Shinra soldiers: Weirdo!!

Cait Sith removes his fat man disguise. The soldiers go after Cait Sith. Cait
Sith fights the soldiers. After Caith Sith defeats the soldiers...

Cait Sith: (unbonds Barret's arms) I'm here to help!

Barret: (confused) Why you......? Ain't you part of Shinra?

Cait Sith: Let's just say I'm against capital punishment. Besides... I hate
this broad. Come on, we gotta help Tifa. I'll keep watch at the entrance.

Barret and Cait Sith approaches the the gas chamber door and attempts to open
the door.

Barret: It won't open!

Meanwhile in the main control room, Heidegger rushes towards Rufus.

Heidegger: It's Weapon.

Rufus: There's been so many attacks lately. Can we handle it?

Heidegger: I believe so. Your orders?

Rufus: No need to ask.

Heidegger: We'll give it a shot from our big cannon. Open cannon doors!!
Activate cannon. Target: Weapon!!

We watch a movie of Junon’s armored shields activating and the Junon cannon was
launched.

Sailor: Preparations complete!

Heidegger: The cannon... Fire----!!!

We watch a movie of Junon firing at the Weapon.

Rufus: Did we get 'em?

Heidegger: Seems so...

Radio: Weapon approaching! It's heading right toward us! Speed, 50 Knots!

Heidegger: It can't be! We hit it dead on!

Rufus: How about the cannon?

Heidegger: It'll take time to reload.

Rufus: Then use regular fire power in the mean time!

Heidegger: Yes sir! Open all artillery doors! Target: Weapon! Don't let it land!

We watch a movie of the Weapon approaching Junon. The soldiers fires their
weapons at the incoming Weapon. Meanwhile in the execution room…

Tifa: Gas!! Barret, help!!

Barret: Hold your breath! Hold on as long as you can!

Tifa: (struggling) Come on! I can't hold on forever!

Barret: Shi-! The Gas Room's probably locked from a different room!

Cait Sith: Hmm, we gotta go with a different plan. Let's get out of this room
first.

Barret: Tifa! I'll help you, I promise!

Barret and Cait Sith attempts to exit through the other door.

Barret: No! They locked this too!

Scarlet: Fools. Now, you can't save the girl. Ha, ha, ha, ha!!

Barret: Goddammit......!!

Cait Sith: OK, OK time for Plan B. Let's run to the airport!

Barret: Why the airport? An' leave Tifa there?

Cait Sith: Trust me, trust me. We gotta take a chance.

Barret and Cait Sith exits through the other door and arrives in the town. In
the town, a news reporter appeared at the scene and approaches Barret and Cait
Sith.

News Reporter: (interviewing Barret) I know you're in a hurry! But, please if I
could have a word......

Barret: Shu'up!! I'm in a hurry!

News Reporter: Kiiiiin... Don't make so much noise...... It's me, ME! Yuffie!

Barret: The hell you doin' here!?

We watch a movie of the Weapon rising up from the water.

Yuffie: I'll explain later! Now we gotta get to the airport!

Yuffie ditches her news reporter disguise and joins Barret and Cait Sith.
Barret’s group proceeds to the airport.

Barret: Yo! You sure this is the right way? It's a dead end!

Cait Sith: Uh oh? Did I make a wrong turn?

Barret: You damn cat......! What the hell're we gonna do now? They all be
comin' soon! Yo, better watch my back till the end... partner!

Meanwhile in the gas chamber, Tifa who uses her legs and mouth manages to free
herself. Tifa gets out of the chair.

Tifa: Which button stops the gas...?

Tifa switches off the gas, Tifa tries to open the door.

Tifa: Open it---......

We watch a movie of the Weapon firing a laser beam at the gas chamber. The
blast created a hole in the ceiling. Then the cannon charges up and blew the
Weapon's head off with one shot. The Weapon’s lifeless body falls into the
ocean.

Scarlet: What d'you do? Hey! Open it!

Tifa: First you lock me in this weird place, and now you're telling me to come
out? Make up your mind!

Tifa manages tp climb her way out of the hole in the ceiling. Tifa later
arrives in the surface of the cannon and then approaches to dead end of the
cannon.

Scarlet: Our little game of hide and seek ends here.

Scarlet appeared at the scene.

Scarlet: The execution may have been unsuccessful, but your death by falling
from here and crashing into the water below still might be pretty exciting.

Scarlet slapped Tifa in the face.

Scarlet: Stuck up to the end!

Tifa: Quit slapping me! You old wench!!!

Tifa and Scarlet kept slapping each other in the face. Tifa then manages to
make Scarlet kneel.

Scarlet: God! I can't stand it! Take her away. Now it's time to pay up. I'll
really drop you if you don't settle down! Ha, ha, ha, ha!

???: Run... Run to the end of the Cannon!!

We watch a movie of the Airship appearing at the scene. Tifa ran and jumps
towards the rope that Barret is holding. After that, Tifa boards the Airship
and the Airship escapes from Junon.

Barret: You okay?

Tifa: My cheeks hurt a bit. Forget about that, what's all this about?

Cait Sith: Well, I'll catch the details later. In any case, the Airship,
Highwind, is now yours.

Barret: (to Cait Sith) Dammit! Why didn't ya tell me you could fly an airship!?
I thought...... Tifa was gone for good.

Cait Sith: Sorry, but I had to do something to trick the enemy. Come on!
Everyone is waiting!

Tifa: Everyone? Everyone's here?

The Airship will be known as the Highwind from this point on. Tifa proceeds to
the cockpit.

Cid: Welcome to my airship-the Highwind. What's wrong!? You should be more
excited than that!

Red XIII: Cid......

Cid: Yeah......

Tifa: Not enough crew.

Tifa starts searching for her group.

Red XIII: Do you think we aren't strong enough without Cloud? Do you think we
can't save the Planet alone?

Tifa: Meteor is coming, and Weapon is on the rampage...... At a time like this,
I don't know what I'm supposed to do...... No idea at all...

Barret: Get a hold of yourself Tifa! C'mon, let's think about this! No way we
can get offa this train we're on!

Tifa: (worried) ......If only Cloud was here, everything would be fine. Cloud
would......
Stand that cocky little way he did, and tell us what to do. He'd say,
'Everything's under control, Tifa'.

Barret: Tifa! When'd you become such a wimp!

Tifa: I'm sorry Barret. I'm kind of shocked myself. I'm so depressed.

Red XIII: And Tifa...... the reason why we all thought it was Cloud was
because......

Tifa: ......I know. That's why I want to make sure. That's why I have to see
him again.

Tifa talks to Cid.

Cid: I want you to know that I didn't dislike him. Gotta admit he was a strange
dude. Just when you thought he was smart, he'd show how stupid he was.
Everything about him from his movements is his speech were kinda odd. Knowin'
what I do now, I can see why he was that way. Well, as long as you stay alive,
you just might see him again someday, so cheer up, sis.

Tifa: ......I'll be able to see him someday.

Cid: If we can find out where he is, the Highwind'll get us there in no time.

Red XIII: ......Maybe. Cloud is still ground cracked and swallowed him up......
Buried in the depths of the underground......

Tifa: Deep within the earth...... are you talking about the Lifestream?

Red XIII: The Lifestream sometimes gushes out to the surface from cracks in the
ocean floor. I heard that such a place exists. Maybe, just maybe Cloud's......

Pilot in training: Waaaah! Captain Cid!

Cid: Tifa, sorry, but I've gotta show this moron how to land the ship. Don't
worry, it'll be done in a minute. Oh, and Tifa...... No matter what your goal
is, you've got to be prepared. Go to your room and get ready for our operation.

Tifa choose Cid and Barret to be in her group. After that, the Highwind travels
to Mideel. In Mideel, Tifa saw a dog.

Tifa: What's the matter? Are you all alone? You got lost didn't you? Separated
from someone you love......? Silly thing...

Man 1: ......guess its been about a week now since he washed up here on the
shore... Poor pokey-headed young thing...

Man 2: It was really sad... ...but weird. He was holding this really long
sword. I dunno. The whole thing was those weird blue eyes......

Tifa: Wha!? Wh...... wait a minute!! What did you just say!? Excuse me! That
young person you were just talking about......

Man 1: Yeah... a villager found him a little ways down the coast... It was
about a week ago I think.

Man 2: Yeah, poor kid...... He must've drifted from somewhere pretty far away...

Tifa: Cloud!! It must be!! It's Cloud!!

Cid: Heh, good job, Tifa.

Barret: You sure!?

Tifa: So where is he? Is he safe!? Where is he now......?

Man 1: Yeah...up ahead here... At the, uh, clinic......

Tifa: He's alive...! Cloud...... Cloud's alive!! Cloud!!

Tifa's group proceeds to the medical clinic. Upon arrival…

Tifa: Cloud!?

Doctor: Here now. The way you're running around here, you'd think Meteor fell
or something.

Tifa: I'm sorry, but I heard that a friend of mine was being taken care of
here......

Doctor: A friend...? Oh yeah......! That young fellow!? Don't worry. Your
friend is next door. But I'm afraid his condition is...

Tifa: Here? Over here.

Tifa saw Cloud sitting in a wheelchair.

Tifa: Cloud...!? Oh... Cloud!! I'm so glad you're safe!? ......!? (surprised)
Cloud......?

Cloud: Uh...... aa......?

Tifa: Wh...... what's wrong...... Cloud......?

Cloud: A...... Gurk......?

Tifa: Cloud! What happened to you......!?

Doctor: Mako poisoning...... Quite an advanced case...... It appears this young
man's been exposed to a high level of Mako energy for a protracted period of
time. He probably has no idea who or where he is now...... Poor fellow, his
voice doesn't even work. He is literally miles away from us. Some place far
away where no one's ever been... All alone......

Tifa: Doctor......!!

Cid: Damn...... that's evil.

Barret: That's bad......

Tifa: Cloud......

Doctor: Ahem! Let us excuse ourselves. (to Barret and Cid) Listen, would you
all mind...... waiting outside?

Barret: ......

Barret and Cid both went outside.

Tifa: Why......? What do you want me to do? Please, Cloud...... Talk to
me...... Tell me you see me, that you can hear me...... Tell me, please...... I
came this far believing in the memories we have together... This isn't
happening......! This is too cruel...... Oh, Cloud......! I.........

Outside, Cid and Barret are waiting patiently for Tifa.

Barret: So what about him? You know...... Cloud?

Doctor: I'll say it again, he's got Mako poisoning. I've never seen a case this
bad. An immerse amount of Mako-drenched knowledge was put into his brain all at
once...... No normal human could survived it...... It's a miracle he did!

Barret: No wonder... After fallin' in the Lifestream an' bein' washed up
here......

Doctor: But remember, the light of hope can be found anywhere. Listen, if you
give up hope... What will happen to him?

Barret: ......hope...... Hey, but honestly, man...... Do I really want him to
come back? What did he do for the world? What can he do for us from here on
out? He may be nothing more than Sephiroth's Shadow......

Doctor: Is something wrong?

Barret: No, nothin'. Nothin' at all, doc.

Tifa: .........

Barret: You okay?

Tifa: Yes...... I'm sorry I had you all worried. And I have something I want to
tell you all...... I don't care about anything else, only Cloud......
I......want to be by his side......

Cid: Yeah. Right. Hang in there, Tifa.

Barret: Yeah, that's probably best...... For Cloud...... an' for you......

Tifa: I'm sorry, everyone... At a time like this......

Cid: Don't worry. I'll stop by again sometime.

Barret: You take care now, Tifa. And take care of Cloud.

Tifa: Right......

Barret: Oh, and uh, Tifa...... I don't like askin' this but... …I…she really
your childhood friend? And not Sephiroth's shadow?

Tifa: Huh!? Well... that is...... No, I'm sure of it!

Barret: Yeah......? Okay then...... Sorry for askin' that.

Cid: Now, we gotta be headin' back to the Highwind.

The camera switches to the Highwind.

Barret: What're we gonna do now! What can WE do? Huh? Ain't there nothin' we
can do? An' don' go tellin' us to wait for Cloud to get better.

Cait Sith: Oh, I've got some news.

Barret: Yeah, what!? That you a spy?

Cait Sith: Yeah...... I've already told you I was. Both gya ha ha and kya ha
ha, are up to something. Wanna eavesdrop?

Meanwhile in the Shinra Headquarters…

Rufus: Now then...... We're faced with two issues. 1: Destroy Meteor. 2: Remove
the barrier around North Cave and defeat Sephiroth. Any ideas?

Heidegger: Gya haah hah hah! We already solved the first problem! Meteor will
soon be smashed to bits! The plan has already been put in motion. Namely, to
collect Huge Materia from each region.

Rufus: Well......

Scarlet: Huge Materia is a high density special type of materia made through a
special compression process in Mako reactors. The energy extracted from it is
330 times the strength of normal materia. Ha, ha, ha! How about that!? We will
gather all the Huge Materia together and ram it into Meteor. That will cause a
huge explosion!! Reducing Meteor literally to bits.

Rufus: You're going to ram Meteor? Do you think we have the technology to do it?

Scarlet: Don't worry about that! More importantly, we've got to collect Huge
Materia from each area.

Heidegger: We've already collected materia from Nibelheim. All that's left is
"Corel" and "Fort Condor", I've already dispatched troops to Corel. Ghaa haah
hah hah!

The camera switches back to the Highwind.

Barret: Corel! What else can they do to Corel!?

Red XIII: And the Huge Materia...... You mean the Huge Materia, don't you? I've
heard about it. When, our small materia nears the larger one, something should
happen. I'm certain of it. That's why we're using the power of materia in our
fight......

Barret: Can't let Shinra get a hold of the Huge Materia! Besides, when Cloud
gets back, I wanna show him this Huge Materia. He's gonna be shocked.

Cait Sith: So, what are you saying, Barret? Even though you're always knocking
him, you really want Cloud to return.

Barret: I ain't sayin' nothin' 'bout nothin'. You just... shut your face! Every
group's gotta have a leader. An' that's me! Or at least I wanna be... Bit I
ain't cut out to be no leader. I never knew that till lately. An' that's what
is......

Cid: ......ZZZZ...... hmph? Wha? What's goin' on?

Barret: You been chosen to be the new leader.

Cid: Pain in the ass. Forget it.

Barret: But for us to fight, we gotta have Highwind, and you. We need it to
save the Planet. An' who's runnin' this ship? You! That's why you're our new
leader. Ain't no one else can.

Cid: Hm...... this ship's gonna save the Planet, huh? Ain't that gonna be just
a little tough? Oh man, that went straight to my heart. I'm a man, too! Okay,
I'll do it! Everyone, follow me!

Barret: Awright, now here's the first job. The Operation Room's waiting for you!

Cid: Yeah!!

Barret: Yo, Cid! When you're ready, we're headin' for the Corel Reactor. C'mon
Mr. leader, you'd better hurry.

Yuffie: Cid......??

Cid chose Barret and Vincent to join his group. The Highwind proceeds to North
Corel. Upon arrival, Cid's group proceeds to the reactor.

Shinra soldier: You guys are...!

Cid's group fights Attack Squad. After Cid's group defeats the two Attack
Squads...

Cid: Guess we're safe for now...!

Suddenly, a train’s choo-choo can be heard.

Vincent: !!

Barret: Da--mn!

The train came out of the reactor.

Cid: Looks like they're takin' off with the Huge Materia in that train!

Barret: NO! You damn boneheads!

Vincent: ...go after them?

Cid: Hey, do you know who I am? I'm Cid- that's who the hell I am! Now just let
me handle it!

Cid's group enters the reactor and steals a locomotive. Cid takes the
locomotive and pursues the intercepting train with the Huge Materia.

Cid: Hey, hey, hey, hey---!

Barret: How can they even drive this?

Cid: Don't ask me... I don't know!

Barret: What!?

Cid: Don't worry! I can handle this kinda stuff!

Cid speeds up the locomotive and Cid’s group jumps onto the other train with
the Huge Materia. With only 10 minutes to stop the train, Cid's group fought
some enemies as they approach the locomotive.

Shinra soldier: What the...! You... you guys!

Cid: All right--- Just hand over the Huge Materia!

Shinra soldier: Sh...... Whooooa----!

Cid’s group fights the Shinra soldier. After Cid’s group defeats the Sinra
soldier…

Cid: You got guts comin' after me! I'll never forget you!

Barret: Got no time for that now!

Vincent: Hit the brakes, Chief.

Cid: I KNOW, already! Just shut up and keep quiet! If we keep this up, we'll
crash right into North Corel! Let's see... If we alternately use the levers to
accelerate... It should brake if we move the levers up or down simultaneously!

Cid pulls the levers.

Barret: Hey, it's not working!

Vincent: Isn't it... the other way?

Cid: $&%*! The other way!? Just watch, this time, I'll...

Cid pulls the levers in the second attempt.

Barret: Hey... HEY HEY!!

Vincent: ......!!

Cid: SHI--------!!

Cid pulls the lever for the final attempt. After that, Cid’s group was able to
stop the train. We watch a movie of the train braking. Cid's group got the Huge
Materia. Later at Corel Town...

Man 1: Aren't you the ones that stopped the Shinra Train? The Shinra was just
about to destroy our lives again... It might be full of junk, but this the only
home we got, Barret!!

Barret: Of...of course! We're all born and raised in the coal mines!! No matter
how tough it gets, our hearts burn bright red like coal!

Man 2: To hell with Meteor! We're Coal Miners, ain't we? We'll dig a deep
tunnel and hide from the Meteor!

Man 1: That's it! Hey, kid! How about givin' somethin' to these guys fighting
the Shinra?

Kid: I got it out of the well. Isn't it an amazing rock!!

Cid’s group receives the Ultima Materia.

Man 2: Must've been a horrific battle. You have scars all over your body. I
already talked to the Inn's owner, today you can rest for free.

The next morning, Cid's group embarks the Highwind and proceeds to Fort Condor.
In Fort Condor, Cid speaks to a man.

Man: Hmmm, now this is something, I never thought anyone would ever climb up
here. Any minute this will be a battlefield against Shinra. You'd better get
down before you get involved.

Cid: A battlefield, we can't overlook that.

Barret: Shinra? The hell those jackasses doing here?

Vincent: What do you mean by that?

Man: It appears you have a problem with Shinra, too. After all, you climbed up
here. Why not listen to what I have to say for a moment?

Cid: All right, talk on!

Man: Do you know what's at the top of this mountain?

Barret: Huh? Something's up there?

Cid: No matter how you look at it, that's a reactor. And on top of it, is that
the condor?

Man: I can see you're very perceptive. Yes, it's a reactor and a condor. Looks
like there's a special materia up in the Mako Reactor. Then came the Condor, so
Shinra dispatched the troops to get rid of the condor and the people on this
mountain and to get the materia from the Mako Reactor. Unfortunately, we don't
have the ability to fight Shinra ourselves. That's why we have hired soldiers
to help us. As our sponsor you can help us with a contribution or by fighting
along side of us... What do you think? You want to join us in our fight?

Cid: If you go that far, what can I say. Well, we'll be able to do something if
you leave it up to us.

Barret: Hey! We'll come to the rescue.

Vincent: That's the right decision.

Cid's group proceeds to the top floor and talks to the man.

Man: So shall I let you in on our strategy? The enemy is targeting this
mountain's reactor and will be climbing to reach it. We must set a trap and
hire soldiers to protect the place. Well, this is all we have...... this
village doesn't have any money. Even if we wanted to fight, our hands are tied
'cause we're broke. To hire one soldier, we need 400gil. So, if we hire 20
soldiers, we must have 8000 gil. That is, we would like you to use you own
money to hire these soldiers, but a trap, set it up and give the commands. We
know that we're asking is selfish. We sent our wives and kids to another
village. We are resigned to our fate. Let's get back to square one. If the
enemy penetrates this shed, you'll have to fight them off immediately. I know
it's a one shot deal, but I'm asking for your help. Now then, is there anything
you wish to ask?

Cid: Enough.

Man: Ready?

Cid: Okay, ready.

Man: This is the deciding battle. The enemy numbers more than ever before.

The strategic battle begins. Cid’s group used his wisest strategy and hired the
amount of soldier to destroy Shinra’s troops. Fort Condor’s troops fights
Shinra’s troops. After Fort Condor’s troops defeats Shinra troops…

Man: YES! We did it! That was wonderful! Thank you! I doubt Shinra will attack
now. A, arrgghh......

We watch a movie of the condor waking up. The egg suddenly explodes. And the
condor
dies and fall out of Fort Condor.

Man: Th, that light just now...... The condor...... The eggs...... What!? Would
you go outside and see what it was?

Cid's group proceeds outside and witnessed a baby condor flying away. Cid’s
group saw a Phoenix Materia and picked it up. Cid’s group talks to the man
sitting down.

Man: Everyone, thanks. I really mean it. Thanks. Although there isn't anything
we can give you, we'll make sure you can stop in and stay any time, so be sure
to drop by. Yes, yes, and there's one thing I forgot to tell you......

The man gave Cid's group the Huge Materia.

Barret: Damn man, it's Huge Materia.

Vincent: This is......

Man: The truth is, this is the materia inside the reactor.

Cid: What the hell did we fight for?

Man: We weren't protectin' the reactor, we were protectin' the condors. When
that reactor was built, they forced us to help. That's how we knew what was
inside the reactor. I knew this day would come, so after the Shinra left, I
sneaked in and took the materia. I didn't mean to fool you, but I guess that's
how it ended up. I'm really sorry.

Cid: Just forget about it. Anyway, we're still alive.

Man Sitting: I see. If you put it that way...... we're really graceful.

Cid: So the last Huge Materia that Shinra's after's in the underwater reactor
in Junon?

Barret: We gotta get there first and beat'em no matter what!

Cid: But ya know, Shinra's probably on high alert since we always mess with
'em. How 'bout we take a break and go see that little fella for a bit?

Barret: You mus' mean Cloud......

Cid: Yeah, I'm worried 'bout Tifa, she may've collapsed takin' care of the guy.
How 'bout checkin' in on 'em? Down to Mideel!

Cid's group flies the Highwind back to Mideel. In Mideel, Cid's group proceeds
to the medical clinic. Upon entering, Cid’s group talks to Tifa.

Tifa: ......It's no use...... I don't understand a thing, Cloud. What should I
do......? Wha if you never recover for the rest of your life?

Suddenly, a shaking can be heard.

Tifa: Eyaaah!?

Cloud: ...... They're...... They're...... coming......!!

Cid: What did you say, Cloud!?

Cloud: Uh......aaa......?

Cid: Damn. What the hell's goin' on!?

Cid's group exits the medical clinic and outside…

Cid: What's this...!? The Lifestream is gushing up from below the surface of
the earth! Damn, that's......!? This is bad......!!

Tifa: Cid......!? What's wrong?

Cid: N, nothin'!! You and Cloud get inside quick!!

Tifa: But I......!?

Cid: Hey, don't worry about a thing. I ain't about to die that easily.

Tifa: Be careful...!

Cid: Okay, here I go! Watch this!! Damn!! That $&^#@%*# Weapon!! Of all the
times to show up......! OK then, come on!! You #$*#&$!!

Cid's group fights Ultimate Weapon. After fighting for a while, Ultimate Weapon
fled the scene.

Cid: You *&^%$#@! You tryin' to escape?

Barret: Damn, man. Just a little bit more an' I woudda smashed him......

Vincent: And the Lifestream also appears to be normal.

Cid: Damn, you gotta be kiddin'......!!  Th, this's bad......! The main Stream
is kickin' up!! Somethin' way bigger than that last one is on its way!! No
good!! Get outta here......!! Goddammit!! You don't have to worry about anyone
other than yourself! You don't know when that stream'll blow...... Whoa!!
There's no time, hurry!! Tifa!! Cloud!! Get outta here!!

Inside the medical clinic…

Tifa: This is bad...... The tremors are getting worse. Wait a minute, Cloud.
Doctor! Shouldn't we move him somewhere rather than stay here...?

Doctor: Hmm...... It might be safer to take refuge in a wide open space.

Tifa: Don't you worry about a thing, Cloud...... I'll see to it that you get
somewhere safe!

Doctor: No! The structure can't take it!! Hurry!

Tifa: Yes! Ready Cloud? We're leaving now!!

Tifa pushes Cloud's wheelchair and exits the medical clinic. We watch a movie
of Tifa and Cloud falling into the Lifestream. Afterwards, the camera shows
Tifa in a dark void.

Tifa: Wh, where am I......? What's happening? I......? Where's Cloud......!?
Cloud, where are you!? Huh...... what......? Who......? Who is it......? I
can't hear......? Wait a minute......! I don't know anything about that! No!
It's not me......! I'd never do anything like that!! No! Stop it......!! Stay
back!! Somebody help! Please!! Cloud, help me!! Eyaaaaghh......!!

Tifa sinks into the darkness. Laer, Tifa then awakes in a surreal world with
various Clouds.

Tifa: ............Where am I......? Cloud!? What is it, Cloud? What is
this......!? Is this the inside of your dreams? Or is it......
your.....subconsciousness......? You're searching, aren't you Cloud?
Searching...... for yourself...... I can help too. We'll work together to try
and get the real you back. But...... Where do we start......?

Tifa talks to the first Cloud.

First Cloud: The gates of Nibelheim... Five years ago, Sephiroth passed through
these gates...... And...... That's how it all started......

Tifa: It connects...... to Nibelheim......? That's right... It's probably best
to start from there...... Let's go have a look, Cloud. I know it's not
easy...... But I'll be right with you......

We watch a movie of a view to Nibelheim.

Tifa: Cloud... look. Here's the well... And that's Gramps' Inn, too. The only
truck in town. It's been here since we were little kids, right? This is the
Nibelheim you remember, right? It's the same as my Nibelheim. That's why this
place is...... our Nibelheim.

Another Cloud appeared near a truck and Tifa spoke to him.

Tifa: Five years ago... two men from SOLDIER came... Sephiroth and...... a
young and vibrant soldier. Can you tell me again what happened?

Sephiroth from the past appeared along with soldiers and Cloud.

Tifa: Five years ago... I saw the real Sephiroth for the very first time. So
this is... the Great Sephiroth. But to tell you the truth, I thought he was
very cold. I remember, I felt a forboding about him.

The Cloud that appeared near a truck went into the Cloud in the past.

Tifa: No, Cloud. I've been hiding it for some time, afraid that if I told you
...something terrible might happen. But, I'm not going to hide anything
anymore. You weren't here. Cloud did not come to Nibelheim five years ago. I...
waited. But, Cloud... never came. The two that were ordered here were Sephiroth
and another person...

Sephiroth of the past reappeared with soldiers and Zack.

First Cloud: You mean that member of SOLDIER who came with Sephiroth
wasn't...... Cloud......?

Tifa: There's nothing...... I can say...... You must find the answer
yourself...... If you can't...... Then you...... Take your time, Cloud.
Slowly...... little by little, okay?

Tifa then spoke to the second Cloud.

Second Cloud: That starry night at the well...... And our promise that night...
What if the memory was just a lie?

Tifa: Don't hurry, Cloud...... Don't answer too quickly. Just keep checking all
those small emotions and it'll come back...... Slowly...... little by
little...... Right... like the sky that night...... the heavens were filled
with stars......

We watch a movie of a view to Nibelheim of the night.

Tifa: From the beginning... OK? Try and remember, Cloud.

Cloud and Tifa as kids appeared.

Tifa: Right, I was wearing these clothes. That's you, too. You were so small
then...... ...and cute. Sephiroth once said... Cloud made up his memories by
listening to my stories... Did you imagine this sky? No, you remembered it.
That night the stars were gorgeous. It was just Cloud and I. We talked at the
well... That's why I continued to believe that you were the real Cloud. I still
believe you're the Cloud from Nibelheim... But you don't believe in yourself...
These memories aren't enough. Cloud, what about your other memories? No, not
memories. A memory is something that has to be consciously recalled, right?
That's why sometimes it can be mistaken and a different thing...... But it's
different from a memory locked deep within' your heart...... That's why it must
be a fake. If he could recall up that memory...... That's it! What about some
memory that has
to do with me? I say something and you don't remember it...... But you say
something, and I remember it, too... Then we'll know that's our memory......
Talk to me. About anything, some important memory to you... Now that you
mentioned it, why did you want to join SOLDIER in the first place? I always
thought it was a sudden decision you made......

Second Cloud: ......I was devastated. ......I want to be noticed. I thought if
I got stronger I could get someone to notice......

Tifa: Someone to notice you...? ......who?

Second Cloud: You......

Tifa: ......Me? Why!?

Second Cloud: Tifa...... did you forget...... about those days?

Tifa: Look...... I...... I'm sorry...... But what are you talking about?

Kid Cloud appeared.

Kid Cloud: No...... it's all right. You were having a hard time back then. You
were so busy with your own things, it's only natural you don't remember me back
then.

Tifa: 'Back then'?

Kid Cloud: It's important to me...... I hate to say it but... It's a very
important memory...... Do you want to see it?

Tifa then talks to the third Cloud.

Third Cloud: ......a sealed up secret...... wish...... Tender memories......no
one can ever know.........

Kid Cloud: Do you know where this window goes to, Tifa? Fine...... I'll go.

We watch a movie of a view to Tifa's room.

Tifa: My room?

Kid Cloud: It was my first time there.

Tifa: Was... it?

Kid Cloud: I only used to look up at it from outside.

The kids and Tifa as a kid appeared.

Kid: Hey, look! Cloud's coming! You think he wants to come in?

Tifa: Was that the first day you came into my room? ...That's right. We lived
next to each other. But I really didn't know you that well. I've known you
since we were children and always thought we were close... Now that you mention
it... I don't recall you ever being in my room...

Kid Cloud: Tifa always used to be with this three-some.

Tifa: ...That's right.

Kid Cloud: I used to think...they were all stupid.

Tifa: What!?

Kid Cloud: You were all childish, laughing at every little stupid thing.

Tifa: But we were children, back then.

Kid Cloud: ...I know. I'm the one that was stupid. I really wanted to play with
everyone, but I was never allowed into the group. Then later... I began to
think I was different... That I was different from those immature kids. That
then... maybe...

Shadow Cloud: Just maybe, they would invite me... I thought that might happen,
so I hang around...

Kid Cloud: I was so prejudiced. And...weak.

Shadow Cloud: That night I called Tifa out to the well... I thought to myself
Tifa would never come... that she hated me.

Tifa: Yeah... it was so sudden. I was... a bit surprised. But... It's true that
we weren't THAT, close, but... After you left town, I really thought about you
a lot. I used to wonder how Cloud was doing. I wonder if Cloud was able to get
into SOLDIER? I started reading the newspapers, thinking that there might be
article about you.

Kid Cloud: Thanks, Tifa. Tell him what you told me, later. He'll probably be so
happy.

Tifa: OK! Huh? What happened on this day? Was it a special day?

Kid Cloud: This was the day...

Shadow Cloud: Tifa's mother...

Tifa: The day Mom died...

Kid Tifa: I want... to see... mom...

At the mountain Mt. Nibel with Tifa and the kids...

Kid Tifa: ...I wonder if there's anything beyond that mountain?

Kid: Mt. Nibel is scary. Many people have died there. No one crosses that
mountain alive...

Kid Tifa: How 'bout those that died? Did mama pass through the mountain? I'm
going!

A kid left and kid Cloud saw where Tifa's going. Later in the white void...

Shadow Cloud: I don't remember the path I walked. Tifa missed her step. I ran
to her... but didn't make it in time. Both of us fell off the cliff. Back then,
I only scarred my knees but......

A man appeared at the scene.

Man 1: Cloud! Why'd you bring Tifa to a place like this!

Man 2: What the hell's the matter with you!?

Man 1: What if she dies!?

Kid Cloud: Tifa was in a coma for seven days. We all thought she wouldn't make
it. If only I could've saved her... I was so angry... Angry at myself for my
weakness. Ever since then, I felt Tifa blamed me... I got out of control... I'd
get into fights not even caring who it was. That was the first time I heard
about Sephiroth. If I got strong like Sephiroth, then everyone might...

Shadow Cloud: If I could get stronger...... Then even Tifa would have to notice
me......

Tifa: So that was it...... Sorry, Cloud. If I had only remembered more clearly
what happened, I could have done something sooner......

Cloud: It's not your fault, Tifa.

Tifa: But, I remember back when we were, eight! That's it! Now I know! You
weren't created five years ago. My childhood memories weren't all made up! Hang
in there Cloud! Just a little longer! You've almost found the real you! Let's
go back to Nibelheim again......!

Shadow Cloud went into Cloud. Tifa then goes to the Nibelheim in this surreal
world.

Tifa: Cloud, wait. Where are you going?

Cloud: ......The reactor......? To the reactor! The Mako reactor of five years
ago!

A flashback of the Mako Reactor in Mt. Nibel, but Zack appears instead of Cloud.

Tifa: That's right! It was Zack who came to Nibelheim with Sephiroth! Then,
where were you, Cloud? Cloud... Did you... see it all?

Cloud: I saw... everything...

A soldier took Zack's sword and pursues Sephiroth. The soldier approaches
Sephiroth and plunges Zack’s sword into Sephiroth’s stomach.

Sephiroth: Aaarrrgh...... who... who are you?

Soldier: Mom... Tifa... my town... give it back... I had so much respect for
you... I admired you...

Tifa: Cloud!?

The soldier took off his mask and Cloud’s face was revealed.

Tifa: That's what happened... ...You were there. You were watching me. Yeah, I
remember. Hmm... so it was you.

Zack: Hey Cloud. If you're feeling sick, why don't you take that mask off?

Cloud: Yeah...... Yeah... this is... me.

The camera switches to the truck from the past.

Cloud: I ...never made it as a member of SOLDIER. I even left my hometown
telling everyone I was going to join, but... I was so embarrassed...... I
didn't want to see anybody...

The camera shows the flashback of Sephiroth and folks in Nibelheim except with
Zack in the scene. Then, in the burning houses…

Cloud: I'm...

The camera shows another flashback in Mt. Nibel Mako Reactor of the past.

Tifa: ...You came. ...You kept your promise. So you really did come when I was
in trouble!

Cloud: Sorry... I didn't get there... fast enough...

Tifa: It's all right... Cloud.

Sephiroth: Just like you.

Zack: Cloud... Kill Sephiroth...

Cloud goes after Sephiroth.

Cloud: Sephiroth!!

Sephiroth plunges his sword into Cloud’s right chest.

Sephiroth: Don't... push... your luck...

Cloud pulls out Sephiroth sword from his wound and throws him into the chasm.

Sephiroth: ...It can't be!

Sephiroth fell into the reactor and dies at the scene. The camera switches to
the surreal world.

Tifa: Cloud......

Kid Cloud: Then... this is goodbye, Tifa. Until we meet again......

The various forms of Cloud all merged into one.

Tifa: ............!?

Cloud finally appeared normally at the scene.

Tifa: Cloud!!

Cloud: Uh...... Ah, uh......! Uh...... Tifa......

Tifa; Oh, Cloud......! It's really you, isn't it?

Cloud: Yeah...... Tifa...... We finally meet again......

Tifa: (intensely worried) You stupid jerk!! You had us all worried sick!!

Cloud: (holds his head as a result of a headache) Krgh......!

Tifa: Cloud!? Are you all right!?

Cloud: V, voice...... Their......

Tifa: I see. We're... in the Lifestream aren't we? Everyone's waiting. Let's go
back, Cloud. Back to everyone......

Cloud: Yeah, I guess so... Come on, Tifa. Let's go home......

Cloud and Tifa ascends out of the Lifestream. Afterwards, Barret checks on Tifa
and Cloud.

Barret: Yo! You alright!? Tifa!?

Tifa: U... unn......? Barret... You came back. I...... Cloud... Where is he?

Barret: Don't worry about him. He's a tough one.

Tifa: Barret...... I ...... When I was in the Lifestream I saw the real Cloud.
I mean, I didn't really find him. Cloud found himself on his own...

Barret: Awright, I know... I shouldn't have doubted him. But I can't win
against you. You're some kinda lady.

Tifa: People have so many things about pent up inside of themselves... And they
can forget so many things...... Strange...... isn't it...... ......

Tifa passes out.

Barret: Yo, Tifa! Snap outta it!! Tifa......!?

Later, the camera switches to the Highwind’s Operation Room.

Cloud: Everyone...... I'm sorry. I don't know what to say......

Red XIII: Don't say anything, Cloud. All you've been doing is apologizing.

Cloud: I never was in SOLDIER. I made up the stories about what happened to me
five years ago, about being in SOLDIER. I left my village looking for glory,
but never made it in to SOLDIER...... I was so ashamed of being so weak; then I
heard this story from my friend Zack... And I created an illusion of myself
made up of what I had seen in my life...... And I continued to play the charade
as if it were true.

Barret: Illusion, huh...? Pretty damn strong for a llusion, I'd say.

Cloud: I'm physically built like someone in SOLDIER. Hojo's plan to clone
Sephiroth wasn't that difficult. It was just the same procedure they use when
creating members of SOLDIER. You see, someone in SOLDIER isn't simply exposed
to Mako energy. Their bodies are actually injected with Jenova cells...... For
better or worse, only the strong can enter SOLDIER. It has nothing to do with
Jenova Reunion. But weak people...... like me, get lost in the whole thing. The
combination of Jenova cells, Sephiroth's strong will and my own weakness are
what created me. Everyone knew that. I'm...... Cloud. ......the master of my
own illusionary world. But I can't remain trapped in an illusion any more......
I'm going to live my life without pretending.

Tifa: You're sure messed up, Cloud!

Barret: That means there ain't no difference from before!

Cait Sith: By the way, Cloud. What are you going to do now? Don't tell me
you're going to leave the ship?

Cloud: ......I'm the reason why Meteor is falling towards us. That's why I have
to do something in my power to fight this thing.

Barret: Good!! Then you're gonna keep fightin' to save the planet!?

Cloud: It's like you always told me, Barret.

Barret: Oh, uh, you mean that!

Red XIII: What? I don't understand!

Barret: There ain't no gettin' offa this train we on! The train we on don't
make no stops!

Cloud chose Cid and Barret to join his group.

Cait Sith: Listen, Cloud. We're right in the middle of the mission for the Huge
Materia, right? I know this's kinda outta the blue, but there's a underwater
reactor at Junon. As far as I can see, that's the only one left. That's that.
Let's go!

The Highwind proceeds to Junon and lands in the airport. Cloud's group took the
elevator to the city. In the city, Cloud vaguely feels something different in
the area where the cannon used to be.

Cloud: I may be mistaken, but...... Doesn't it feel like we're missing
something?

Cloud's group proceeds to the elevator. Just as they approach the elevator
guarded by the soldiers…

Soldier 1: How 'bout, who ever stays alive, gets to take her out?

Soldier 2: All right, you're on!! But... What if both of us...

Soldier 1: Whoa!! Don't even talk about that!

Cloud's group fought two Submarine Crews. After Cloud’s group defeats Submarine
Crews, Cloud’s group takes the elevator to the bottom floor. After that,
Cloud’s group exits the elevator and approaches the next elevator.

Soldier 1: OK! Back to work!! Back to work!!

Soldier 2: Yawn... I'm sleepy!! For Junon!!

Cloud's group fights and defeats more Submarine Crews. Cloud’s group takes
another elevator down to the the reactor floor. Upon arrival…

Cloud: !? The Huge Materia!

Barret: Damn, just missed it!

Cid: That's what you think! #$^#&*$^#*$$!

Cloud's group moved on. In the submarine dock...

Cloud: Did we make it!?

The camera shows the crane carrying the Huge Materia, places it in the Red sub.

Reno: What are you doing? Help, load. Cloud!?

Barret: We're gonna help transport the Huge Materia... Reno!

Cid: You know I don't work for cheap!

Cloud: Either give it to us or else. ...which is it gonna be?

Reno: Unfortunately, I don't have time to deal with you. My priority is the
Huge Materia!

Reno fled the scene Carry Armor approaches Cloud’s group. Cloud's group fights
Carry Armor. After Cloud’s group defeats Carry Armor…

Cloud: Damn! The submarine!

Barret: Damn! So they was just buyin' time!?

Cid: Hold on to your horses! Let's get it from them!!

Cloud's group fights their way through the soldiers who are blocking their way.
Cloud’s group manages to board the submarine. In the submarine control room…

Commander: NO, NO!! This is terrible!

Soldier 1: We don't have much time left! I don't want to die!

Soldier 2: There's so much more I've got to do! I never even got to do my
special victory dance in battle!

Commander: All right!! Then make this your first victory!! Go on, show 'em!!

Soldier 1&2: Yes, sir!!

Commander: Remember your last training. Begin!!

Soldier 1&2: Yes, sir!!

Commander: I'm back! An' now I got no regrets!! ATT----ACK!!

Cloud: Hmmmm... Take them prisoners.

The commander and the two soldiers moved outta the way.

Cloud: (tensed up) Someone... please. I'm sorry I can't take it anymore. The
lack of space, the shaking, the roar of the engine...

Barret: (can’t take it anymore) Stop your blubberin'!! How we gonna move this
without you?

Cid: (pitys Cloud) Hunka junk...just gotta do this! SEE! Now you take over!

Cloud: Hey, you're right... I DO feel a little better driving. No sweat. Just
leave everything to me.

Cloud sat in the seat and his group they began the battle with the Red
submarine. Cloud’s group manages to defeat the intercepting submarine.

Cloud: Phew--! WE did it! The Huge Materia should be at the bottom of the sea
by now. Let's continue the search...

Radio: ...all Shinra Subs. Do you read?

Cloud: Hmm...? ...Must be from Shinra.

Radio: ...Report, No. 2...

Barret: Is it us?

Cloud: All right, I'll do it. This is Shinra No. 2... Everything's normal.

Radio: ...Roger... ...Your next mission is... ...Return to Junon Dock... ...We
will transport the Huge Materia from the airport......Those without other
assignments will report for guard duty... That is all. Over and out...

Cloud: Junon Airport... We should make it if we hurry. Forget about the Huge
Materia for now. We're climbing.

Cid: The Airport. No sweat!

Cloud's group disembarks the submarine. Cloud replaces Vincent with Barret in
his group. Cloud’s group embarks the submarine and proceeds to Junon. In Junon
Airport, we watch a movie of the Gelnika plane taking off.

Cid: Oh no! The Huge Materia...

Barret: Let's go after it!

Cid: Where's that thing headed?

Cloud: Rocket Town, of course.

The Highwind proceeds to Rocket Town. Upon arrival, Cloud’s group approaches
the rocket.

Shinra soldier: Those terrorist are here!

Cloud's group fights and defeats the first two soldiers. Cloud’s group goes
upstairs with one commander and four more Shinra soldiers.

Commander: Don't let them get any further! Everyone, ATTACK---!

Cloud's group fights and defeats more soldiers. After that…

Commander: Urrrgh, you're not going anywhere! Uh un, nowhere!

Cloud's group fights and defeats the commander and the two remaining soldiers.
After that…

Cid: Goddammit, what the hell do they think they're gonna do to my rocket!? I'm
outta here, Cloud! I'm gonna kick those #$#$$#*$' Shinra right out of my rocket.

Cloud's group climbs the ladder to the area with Rude and the two soldiers.

Rude: ...you again? ...We will eliminate everyone who gets in Shinra's way.

Cloud’s group fights Rude and the soldiers.

Rude: Ugh.........gh.........

After Cloud’s group defeats Rude and the soldiers…

Rude: ......they got us.

Cloud's group enters the rocket.

Commander: You...you! Why are you here? Rude of the Turks should've been here!!

Cloud: Too bad. Those guys are over there.

Commander: Oh man... the Turks, being done in like that... But, I won't let you
through!

Cloud's group wounds the commander. Cloud's group then proceeds to the cockpit.

Cid: Hey! What the hell're you guys doin'!?

Crew 1: Hey! Just when I thought somethin' was goin' on, you come back!

Crew 2: Listen to me, Captain. We're gonna launch this rocket!

Cid: Huh? What are you talkin' about?

Crew 3: We're gonna load a Materia bomb in this and blow up Meteor.

Crew 1: Our rocket's gonna save the planet!!

Crew 2: Urrrrgh. Man this is so COOL!!

Cloud: Wait a minute!

Cid: (to Cloud) Shut up!! Just shut the hell up!! (to the crews) How's the
rocket?

Crew 1: It's pretty much OK.

Crew 2: But...

Crew 3: We planned to run it into Meteor on Auto-Pilot, but the most important
device is broken.

Cid: Broken? How's the repair goin'?

Crew 3: Shera's doin' it...

Cid: Oh great! What a buncha wizards you guys are! She's gonna take 100 years!
I'll take over, so don't worry about the Auto-Pilot! Hey, go ahead! Go tell
everyone!

All Crews: All right, Captain. Good luck.

The crews left the scene.

Cloud: Hey, Cid! What're you doing!? There are generations of knowledge and
wisdom inside the Materia. We're gonna borrow their powers and save the planet
from Sephiroth. There's no way that we can lose the Huge Materia. You
understand that, right?

Cid: Yeah, I understand. I understand that Materia is precious, and also
understand what you're thinking. But listen. I don't give a rat's ass whether
it's science or magical power. No, I guess if I had to choose, I'd rather put
my money on the power of science. Humans who used to only roam around on the
ground are able to fly now! And finally, we're about to go into outer space.
Science is a "Power" created and developed by humans. And science just might be
what saves this planet. I was able to earn my living thanks to science. So to
me, there's nothing greater! Now quit your worrying 'bout what Shinra's gonna
do! I don't want to regret not having done something later.

Cloud: But, Cid......

Cid: (can’t take it anymore) Shut the hell up!! I don't wanna hear it!!
Alright, time to get to work! Anyone who ain't involved, get the hell outta
here!

Suddenly, the rocket’s activation can be heard.

Cid: What the hell......? What the hell happened!?

Voice of Palmer: Hey-hey!

Cid: Palmer! What the hell did'ya do!?

Voice of Palmer: They said they finished repairing the Auto-Pilot. So, I
laun---ched it!

Cid: Goddamn Shera! Why'd she pick today to get fast! DAMN! Won't even budge!
It's completely locked up!

Voice of Palmer: Hey-hey-hey! Almost lift off!

Cid: What the!? No countdown!? It just don't seem the same without it!

Voice of Palmer: Hey!!!! Hey-hey!!! Blast-----off!

We watch a movie of the rocket taking off to outer space. After that…

Cid: (slightly rejoicing) I finally made it... outer space... Let's see, how's
the course set...? Yup, it's headed for a collision with Meteor.

Barret: Can't we do somethin'? We can't jus' leave it.

Cid: That damn Palmer went outta his way to lock the Auto-Pilot device. We
might not be able to change the course.

Cloud: ...this is the end?

Cid: Huh? What the hell're you sayin'? You're still young, and you give up that
easily? I'm not gonna crash into Meteor. Just watch. I keep an Escape Pod on
the rocket just for emergencies like this. I deciphered the lock code on the
Escape Pod. We'll ball right before we crash into Meteor.

Barret: Hey wait a second! What's gonna happen to the Huge Materia?

Cid: ......If you want the Materia, do what ever you want! The Materia should
be there after you climb that ladder.

Cloud: ...You sure?

Cid: I dunno... I know what I said a minute ago. But maybe all that I really
wanted was just to go into outer space. So, why don't you all do whatever you
think is right?

Cloud's group proceeds to the Huge Materia room.

Cloud: I finally found the Huge Materia...

Cid: It's structured so that the lock can be opened if we enter the passcode
from this control panel.

Cloud manages to think wisely and decipher the lock codes by pressing Square,
Circle, X, and X. The passcode was accepted and the lock was released.

Cid: (amazed) Whoa, pretty good! You got the passcode in a single try! You
must've known the passcode. If not, it's impossible.

Cloud’s group retrieves the Materia. Cloud’s group head makes their way to the
escape pod. But just as Cloud’s group arrived in the oxygen tank room, one of
them blew up, leaving heavy debris scattered all over the floor.

Cid: (legs pinned down) Grrrgh! Damn! My leg's stuck in the debris......

Cloud: Cid!!

Cloud and Barret attempts to lift the large debris.

Barret: ...damn! ...can't lift it!

Cid: Don't worry 'bout me. Hurry up and go! If you don't hurry, the rocket's
gonna crash into Meteor!

Cloud: ...I can't go without my friends.

Cid: You @^#*%$&......! No time to worry 'bout other people!

Cloud: I'm gonna do whatever I can.

Cid: (pissed off) You're stupid. You're really *&^%$#@ stupid. Tank Number 8
blew up...... (understands from the past) So Tank Number 8... really was
malfunctioning...... Shera... You were right. (hopeless) But, ......this is the
end for me.

Shera: Don't say that, Cid.

Shera appeared at the scene.

Cid: Huh!? Shera!?

Shera: I tagged along. I'm coming to help you.

Cid: (angered) You stupid @^#!%@&*#$!!

Cloud, Barret and Shera manages to remove the large debris from Cid, freeing
him.

Cid: ......Sorry.

Later…

Shera: Hurry. I'm going to detach the Escape Pod.

Cid: Hey, Shera! Does this Pod really fly?

Shera: It'll be OK. I've been checking it till now.

Cid: .........Then I'm relieved.

Shera: ......Thanks.

We watch a movie of the Escape Pod detached. In the Escape Pod...

Cid: (fanscinated) So this is...... outer space... Man... it's the real
thing... I'm really
here in outer space... So long. Shinra No. 26...

We watch a movie of the rocket crashing into Meteor. Unfortunately, the Meteor
grew powerful and slightly speed up the descending towards the Planet.
Meanwhile in the Highwind...

Cloud: Rufus and the other plan was a failure...

Barret: What a bust... But I hoped it work.

Cait Sith: We been botherin' them as much as we can... But there ain't no other
way... Wonder if we've been wrong all this time?

Red XIII: Makes you worry, doesn't it?

Tifa: Don't worry! Think!

Cid: Hey! The girl's right. You start worryin' and there's no stoppin' it!
Things just start fallin' apart and get worse and worse.

Barret: You're pretty damn optimistic! You up to somethin'!?

Cid: Yeah, I been thinkin' about this and that. All the time we been up here
lookin' at the planet. I been thinkin' even when were floatin' in the ocean in
that escape pod.

Cloud: I've... been thinking too. About the universe... planet... ocean. How
wide and big... No matter where I go and what I do it won't change a thing.

Cid: Maybe you're right. But I came up with something different. I always
thought this planet was so huge. But lookin' at it from space, I realized it's
so small. We're just floatin' in the dark. ......kind of makes you feel
powerless. On top of that it's got Sephiroth festerin' inside it like a
sickness. That's why I say this planet's still a kid. A little kid sick and
trembling in the middle of this huge universe. Someone's gotta protect it. Ya
follow me? That someone is us.

Tifa: Cid... that's beautiful.

Barret: Yo! Cid! You even got to me! Do, now what? How're we gonna protect the
planet from Meteor?

Cid: ...............I'm still thinkin' about that.

Red XIII: Huh!? Did you...... hear something?

Tifa: The planet's scream...... or Meteor...? Is it this planet?

Cloud: Hey, how do we know that this is really the planet's scream?

Tifa: Did you forget? Bugenhagen told us.

Cloud: Bugenhagen...

Red XIII: Let's go see grandfather! To Cosmo Canyon! I'm sure he'll be able to
tell us something that will be helpful!

Cloud's group proceeds to the submarine and retrieves the Huge Materia from the
destroyed red sub. They also found the Key of the Ancients. Then they found
Lucrecia's cave. Cloud replaces Barret with Vincent and inside the cave.

Vincent: That voice? It can't be... Lucrecia...?

Lucrecia: Vincent...?

Vincent: Lucrecia!!

Lucrecia: Stay back!!

In a flashback , it appeared to be that Lucrecia talks about Sephiroth that she
raised him. In the memory, Gast shot Vincent, and did some operation to him.
Vincent woke up and felt really bizarre.

Vincent: This body is... the punishment that's been given to me... I was
unable...... to stop Professor Gast and Hojo... And Lucrecia... I was unable to
stop them... All that I was able to do was watch... That is my punishment...

The flashback ended.

Vincent: Lucrecia... You're alive...

Lucrecia: I wanted to disappear... I couldn't be with anyone... I wanted to
die... But the Jenova inside me wouldn't let me die... Lately, I dream a lot of
Sephiroth... My dear, dear child. Ever since he was born I never got to hold
him, even once... Not even once. You can't call me his mother... That... is my
sin... Back!! Stay back!! Vincent... Won't you please tell me?

Vincent: ......What?

Lucrecia: Is Sephiroth still alive? I heard he died five years ago. But I see
him in my dreams so often... And, I know that physically, like myself, he can't
die so easily. Please, Vincent tell me......

Vincent: Lucrecia... Sephiroth is dead...

After that, Cloud's group flies the Highwind to Cosmo Canyon. Upon arrival…

Bugenhagen: Ho Ho Hoooo. If you ever are in need of my wisdom, you are always
welcome here.

Cloud: Yeah, that's why we came.

Bugenhagen: What to do? Have you lost your way? When that happens we each have
to take a good long look at ourselves. There's always something in the deepest
reaches of our hearts. Something buried, or something forgotten. Remember it...
Whatever that is, must certainly be what you are all looking for...

Cloud: That's easy enough to say... But, I can't remember a thing.

Bugenhagen: It must be there. Look harder!

Barret: This ain't no good with just us! Cloud, we gotta get some others in
here.

Cloud dialed the PHS and called everyone to come in to Bugenhagen's house.
After that…

Bugenhagen: Do you see it? What is it that you are searching for?

Cait Sith: Nope. Not a thing. Naw. Can't come up with a thing.

Yuffie: Me either! I don't get any of this!

Cloud: I remember Aerith a lot. No... not that. You haven't remembered. You
haven't forgotten. That's not it... How would say it... Aerith was right there
all along. Right by our side. She was so close, we couldn't see her. What
Aerith did... The words she left behind...

Tifa: That reminds me... I was the same.

Red XIII: ......as was I.

Barret: Me too...

Cloud: She said she was the only one who could stop Sephiroth's Meteor.

Tifa: But Aerith is gone.

Red XIII: Is it impossible for us to carry on... what Aeris tried to accomplish?

Barret: We ain't no Ancients, if that's what ya mean.

Cid: What, did that girl go off to that place?

Cloud: That's it!!

Cid: What's it?

Cloud: We don't know about it. What did Aeris know? Why did she face Sephiroth
without running away?

Red XIII: I see... She returned there once again, correct?

Bugenhagen: Hmmm. Perhaps I'll have you take me there.

Red XIII: You're going too?

Bugenhagen: What's so surprising about that...? Even I want to get out from
time to time and see the outside world. I wonder what did it? I haven't felt
like this in ages.

Red XIII: It must be the planet. The planet is calling you!

Cid: Yeah, hoo boy, the planet calling...right.

Bugenhagen: Ho Ho Hoooo. Then let's go.

Everyone left the room and Cloud speaks to Bugenhagen.

Cloud: Oh yeah, Bugenhagen. I have one more thing I want to ask you, We're
carrying around Huge Materia. This is pretty delicate stuff and we would like
to keep it in a safe place...

Bugenhagen: Ho Ho Hoooo. Then we'll put it upstairs. Now, shall we be on our
way?

After Cloud places the Huge Materias upstairs. After that, Cloud’s group boards
the Highwind. In the Highwind…

Bugenhagen: Hm, hmm, hmm! ......Smells like machinery. I love this smell. Of
course, I also love the smell of nature, too...... Hm? IS the deck up there?
Then I'll be on the deck just passing the time. I can feel the workings of the
planet in the wind. I also feel the greatness of man's wisdom and the knowledge
in the smell of machinery... Well, bye for now.

Cloud's group proceeds to Ancient City.

Cloud: Are you getting something?

Bugenhagen: ...give me a moment.

In Ancient City…

Bugenhagen: The knowledge of the Ancients swirling around here is telling me
one thing. The planet's in a crisis... A crisis beyond human power or endless
time. It says, when the time comes, we must search for 'Holy'.

Cloud: Holy?

Bugenhagen: Holy... the ultimate White Magic. Magic that might stand against
Meteor. Perhaps our last hope to save the planet from Meteor. If a soul seeking
Holy reaches the planet, it will appear. Ho Ho Hoooo. Meteor, Weapon,
everything will disappear. Perhaps, even ourselves.

Cloud: Even us!?

Bugenhagen: It is up to the planet to decide. What is best for the planet. What
is bad for the planet. All that is bad will disappear. That is all. Ho Ho
Hoooo. I wonder which we humans are?

Cloud: Search for Holy... How do we do it?

Bugenhagen: Speak to the planet. Get the White Materia... This will bond the
Planet to humans. Then speak to the planet. If our wish reaches the planet, the
White Materia will begin to glow a pale green.

Cloud: ...This is the end. Aerith had the White Materia... But when Aerith
died, it fell from the altar... That's why...... this is the end.

Bugenhagen: Ho Ho Hoooo! Ho Ho Hoooo! Ho Ho Hoooo! Look at this!

Cloud: !?

Bugenhagen: Ancients' writing.

Cloud: Can you read it?

Bugenhagen: I can't even make it out!!

Cloud: This's no time for jokes...

Bugenhagen: I'm not an Ancient. I can't read this thing! I may be old, but my
eyes aren't completely bad yet. Look closely below the writing.

Cloud: There's a note written in chalk...... (key)... (in the Music Box)…

Bugenhagen: It was probably written by a scientist who's been here... He
probably used all his energy to make out these two words.

Cloud: Key......? To what?

Bugenhagen: I don't know... But, it probably has something to do with our
riddle. The riddle... then it must have something to do with Aerith.

Cloud: What does it mean?

Bugenhagen: That Music Box over there. We'll put the key in it. I'll go use the
key. You all wait here. And watch closely what happens. Ho Ho Hoooo!

We watch a movie of Bugenhagen putting the key into the Music Box and water
came out of the Music Box.

Bugenhagen: Now, go inside. Hope may be inside... Or...... This was just a
screen to project an image! Look! Look at the image projected on the screen of
the water!

We watch a movie of Aerith in the flashback and the White Materia falling.

Cloud: ...It's glowing.

Bugenhagen: Ho Ho Hoooo!! It's pale green!!

Cloud: ...Aerith. Aerith has already prayed for Holy. ...After I gave up the
Black Materia to Sephiroth...... Aerith's words came into my dreams... She
said, she was the only one who could stop Sephiroth...... And to do that, there
was a secret here... that was Holy...... That's why, she had the White Materia.
Aerith knew about here... and what she had to do. Aerith has left us great
hope. But, it cost her her life... her future... I'm sorry... Aerith. I should
have figured this out sooner. ...You left us without saying a word...... It was
all so sudden, so I couldn't think... That's why it took so long for me to find
out. But, Aerith... I understand now. Aeris... I'll do the rest.

Barret: That's 'WE'!

Cid: The big gift the flower girl left for us... It'd be sad if we didn't
finish it!

Cloud: Thank you... Aerith. Aerith's voice has already reached the Planet. Just
look at the glow of the White Materia. But...... how about Holy? How come Holy
isn't moving? Why?

Bugenhagen: Something's getting in its way.

Cloud: ......Him...... He's the only one that could do it....Sephiroth. Where
are you?

While going out, Cloud picked up the PHS.

Cloud: What the?

Cait Sith: whisper... whisper... (Sorry I was a little surprised).

Cloud: What happened?

Cait Sith: You remember when the Junon Cannon disappeared? Actually, Rufus
moved it.

Cloud: Moved it? The big thing......? Where...? Why?

Cait Sith: Rufus wants to destroy Sephiroth with it. That cannon operates on
Huge Materia. But the Huge Materia has already been used in the Rocket Plan. So
since the cannon's useless right now, he decided to move it. To a place where
Materia... no, where Mako is gathered...

Cloud: And, where is that!?

We watch a movie of Meteor slowly descending and Midgar with the cannon. In
Shinra Headquarters...

Rufus: ......That's why, Reeve. It's your job to adjust the reactor's output.

Reeve: I see......

Scarlet: Hah, hah, hah! Don't worry about adjusting it, Reeve. Once you open it
up all the way everything will go full speed!

Heidegger: Gya, hah, hah, hah! The President's sure done it this time! If we
can only defeat Sephiroth, the idea that Meteor will also disappear is based on
different objectives!

Scarlet: Please remember, Mr. President... It was my idea to fire Mako reactor
powered shells.

Rufus: Will the shells really reach the far northern border?

Scarlet: Ah, hah hah! Of course! But Mr. President, please do not call it a
Mako cannon. This new weapon will be called...... The Sister Ray!

The camera switches to Cloud's group and they board the Highwind.

Cloud: ............? Wh, what the...!?

We watch a movie of Diamond Weapon rising up from the ocean. In the Highwind...

Cid: What's wrong!?

Pilot: It's a strange signal!

Cid: From where?

Pilot: It's coming from this... person (?)

Cait Sith: Wow! Hey! That was a surprise, the controls went crazy. This ain't
no good... Weapon came out of the sea and is heading straight for Midgar. The
new weapon should stop him, right? I don't know if it's ready or not...

Barret: Hey! What's gonna happen to Marlene!?

Cait Sith: Doncha worry none, Marlene's in a safe place. She's with Aerith's
mama. Barret!! What was that scratching just now!? As long as Marlene is safe,
who cares what else happens, right? I been itchin' to say this to ya fer a
while now! When ya blew the Midgar No. 1 up, how many folks d'ya think died?

Barret: ...that was for the life of the planet. Ya gotta expect a few
casualties.

Cait Sith: A few? Whaddya mean 'a few'? What may be a few to y'all is
everythin' to them who died...... Protect the planet. Hah! Y'all sure sound
good! Ain't no one that'd go against ya. So ya think ya can do whatever y'all
want?

Barret: I don't want hear from no one in Shinra...

Cait Sith: ......nuthin' I can do 'bout that...

Cloud: Stop it!

Tifa: Cait Sith...... Barret, he knows what he did. What we did in Midgar can't
be forgotten no matter what the reason. Right? We haven't forgotten, right? I
know you. You can't quit the company because you're worried about the people in
Midgar, right? ......Cloud?

Cloud: OK! Let's go! We'll beat Weapon ourselves!

Cid: Hey Cloud...... You think we can win against that monster? We got a chance
of winnin', right?

Cloud: How would I know? But that's no reason for us to just let him go! We're
goin' to Midgar and fight Weapon! Come on, let's move!

They landed near Midgar. Cloud's group fights Diamond Weapon. After the fight,
Cloud's group evacuates. Cloud then picks up the PHS.

Cait Sith: Oh no! Let's hurry out of here! Something big... I'm talkin' REALLY
BIG's comin'!

Meanwhile at Shinra Headquarters...

Heidegger: Hah, hah, hah, Mr. President, preparations for Sister Ray are now in
order.

Scarlet: Hah, hah, hah! Anytime is fine.

Rufus: ......Fire.

We watch a movie of the Sister Ray charging up and then fires towards the
Crater. Diamond Weapon fired his weapons too.

Tifa: Which direction is it going to attack from?

Red XIII: Midgar!

Barret: Marlene!!

We watch a movie of the shot from the Sister Ray blasting through Diamond
Weapon’s torso. Diamnond Weapon falls to the floor and dies at the scene.

Barret: Damn...

Red XIII: It went right through Weapon......

Cloud: I see! They're after Sephiroth! The crater on the Northern boundary!

We watch a movie of the Sister Ray destroying the crater barrier. The camera
switches to Shinra Headquarter...

Operator: Sir! Weapon's been defeated!! The barrier has disappeared!

Suddenly…

Operator: Sir! A mass of high density energy is heading towards Midgar!

We watch a movie of the Weapon's shots blast the main office of Shinra
Headquarters and Rufus was caught in the blast and the camera views the outer
area of the Shinra Headquarters in shambles. The camera switches to the
Highwind...

Cloud: What happened to...... Sephiroth? Northern Cave... Let's go see what
happened to it.

Cloud’s group takes the Highwind to the Northern Cave. Upon arrival…

Cloud: Sephiroth's energy barrier is gone...... Cid! Can the Airship get inside?

Cid: Huh? He's my student, ain't he!? Of course he can go anywhere!

Cloud: Right, sorry about that.

Barret: Yo, Cait Sith! Now what?

Cait Sith: Hold it! Scarlet! Heidegger! What's going on?

Meanwhile in the Shinra Headquarters...

Heidegger: Strange. I can't reach the President!

Reeve: Not the President. To Sister Ray!

Scarlet: Ha, ha, ha. What is it Reeve? You're speaking strangely.

Reeve: None of that matters! The reactor's output is increasing all by itself!

Scarlet: Ww, wait a minute. That's not wise! It must cool for 3 hours or it
won't work. Reeve, shut off the machine!

Reeve: We can't do that! It's inoperable!

Operator: Someone has switched the machine over to mainframe operation! We
can't operate it from here.

Reeve: What about the mainframe? Who!? Hey, call the mainframe!

Heidegger: Huh? Why are you giving orders?

Reeve: I don't give a damn about the details!!

Meanwhile in the controls of the Sister Ray...

Hojo: Ha, ha, ha...... Just you wait, Sephiroth. I'll give you all the Mako you
want.

Reeve: (calling from the PHS) Hojo, STOP! The cannon, no, Midgar itself is in
danger!

Hojo: Ha, ha, ha...... One or two Midgars? ...it's a small price to pay.

Reeve: Hojo! HOJO......!!

Hojo: Show me...... Sephiroth. It should be near... Ha, ha, ha...... Go beyond
the powers of science... Before your presence, science is powerless... I hate
it, but I'll concede to it. Just... let me see it. Ha, ha, ha......

Later in the Highwind...

Barret: YO! Do somethin'! Ya big cat!

Cait Sith: We're sunk. Hojo's doing this on his own...... ...? ...? H, huh? I
don't like this......

Barret: You're busted, Reeve! Too late tryin' to hide it now...

Cloud: Can't you stop the Mako Reactor?

Cait Sith: ......We can't stop it.

Barret: You're from Shinra, ain't ya? So why's it impossible!?

Cait Sith: ............

Cid: We came a long way to get here. You better not double-cross us now!

Cait Sith: I can't make you trust me......

Cid: You damn fool! Don't you understand anything I'm saying? I don't give a
damn about Shinra. If you're a man... no, if you're a human being, you'll save
the planet! Don't you even care?

Cait Sith: No way! If we shut down the reactor, all hell will break loose!!

Cid: Why? Can't you just shut off the valve?

Cait Sith: Yeah, it's easy to shut off the reactor's pipe valves......But the
reactor made a path for the energy to escape from below. Once you open that,
it'll be impossible to close it until everything blasts our... And we can't try
to stop the energy from gushing out......

Barret: An explosion!!

Cait Sith: This blast'll be way stronger than when the number 1 reactor blew up!

Barret: Damn...!

Cait Sith: Forget about that...... the CANNON! We've got to get to Midgar!
That's the first thing!!

Cloud: Must stop Hojo... first.

Meanwhile at the Shinra Headquarters...

Reeve: Looks like Cloud and the others are on their way. Stay out of the way!

Heidegger: Ghaa haah hah hah! Don't be so ludicrous! I don't recall you giving
me any orders! The Peace Preservation will give their best effort to make the
enemy retreat! Because of them, I...... I...!

Reeve: That's a private matter......

Heidegger: The President is dead! Now I'm doing things my way! Ghaa haah hah
hah!

Scarlet: Ha, ha, ha. Heidegger! Now I'm going to use the new weapon!

Reeve: Hey! Wait!! Cloud, everybody! Sorry...... But!!

Two Shinra soldiers seized Reeve. Back to the Highwind.

Cait Sith: But! But you'll come won't you!?

Cloud: I know!

Cid: Hey! I'm leaving the ship in your hands!

Pilot: I'm heading for Midgar!

The Highwind proceeds to Midgar.

Pilot: We reached Midgar!

Barret: Even if we get there, Midgar's under martial law! There'll be no way we
could slip into the slums.

Tifa: Looks like all transportation from the slums us cut off......

Cid: Hey, hey, whaddya think we have Highwind for? Where are we now!?

Barret: Huh? Where are we...?

Cid: If land's no go... We'll go by air!

Cloud: Okay then! We'll parachute into Midgar!!

Outside of the Highwind...

Cloud: Here we go!!

Cloud’s group jumps off the Highwind and later unleashes their parachutes.
After a successful landing...

Cait Sith: (to Cloud) Heidegger is going after you all. That's why it's
dangerous out there. Let's go underground!

Later, in the alley...

Cait Sith: This is where we go in. Please! Hurry and come to the Mako Cannon!

Cloud's group moves on. In the train tunnels…

Elena: Oh no! They're here! What are we going to do!? I think it's okay for you
to ignore your orders now.

Reno: ...Elena, don't act so weak.

Rude: We're Turks, Elena.

Elena: ...Yes, sir. You're right.

Rude: Come on, we've got work to do.

Reno: I'm not really up for it, but...

Elena: Our orders were to seek you out and... ...Kill. Our company may be in
turmoil, but an order's an order. That's the will and spirit of the Turks!
Believe it!

Cloud: ......

Elena: What are you doing! Let's go!

Cloud: No, let's not go.

Elena: You showing pity!? Don't take the Turks for fools!

Reno: Wait, Elena.

Elena: Reno! You're not violating the order... are you!?

Reno: Shinra's finished. It's come down to this.

Rude: ......

Elena: Rude...

Reno: Elena, you were a great Turk!

Elena: ......

Reno: Farewell. If we both survive... If we can save our lives...

Reno left the scene.

Elena: (to Cloud's group) Remember the spirit of the Turks...!

Elena left the scene.

Rude: Our mission's finished...

Rude left the scene. Cloud's group moves on. In the next area…

Barret: What the... hell is that!!?

Cid: Hey-hey! You serious...?

Proud Clod appeared at the scene. Heidegger and Scarlet came out from the
cockpit.

Heidegger: G'yaaa, Haaa, Haaa!!! Here they come! G'yaaa, Haaa, Haaa!!! So they
really showed up! You sure did treat us like dogs up to now!!

Scarlet: You killed off a lot of my precious soldiers!

Heidegger: G'yaaa, Haaa, Haaa!!! But let's see how you do against anti-Weapon
artillery!

Scarlet: You guys are worthless, but my proud creation is a sure thing! I'll
show you the destructive power of the Proud Clod!

Cloud's group fight Proud Clod. After Cloud’s group defeats Proud Clod…

Scarlet: Not tha! This is the Proud Clod.........!?

Heidegger: Whoooooa!!

Heidegger and Scarlet dies at the scene along with the destruction of Proud
Clod. Cloud's group moves on. In the area where Hojo is controlling the Sister
Ray…

Cloud: Hojo! Stop right there!!

Hojo: Oh…the failure.

Cloud: At least remember my name! It's Cloud!

Hojo: Every time I see you, I... It pains me that I had so little scientific
sense... I evaluated you as a failed project. But, you are the only one that
succeeded as a Sephiroth-clone. Heh, heh, heh...... I'm even beginning to hate
myself.

Cloud: None of that matters... just stop this nonsense!

Hojo: ...nonsense? Oh, this? Ha, ha, ha... Sephiroth seems to be counting on
the energy. So I'm going to lend him a hand.

Cloud: Why!? Why do that!?

Hojo: Quit asking me why, you moron. Hmm... actually, you might be cut out to
be a scientist. Energy level is at...... 83%. It's taking too long. My son is
in need of power and help. ...That's the only reason.

Cloud: ...your son?

Hojo: Ha, ha, ha... Although he doesn't know. Ha, ha, ha... HA, HA, HA...!!
What will Sephiroth think when he finds out I'm his father? Always looking down
on me like that. HA, HA, HA...!!

Cloud: Sephiroth is your son?

Hojo: Ha, ha, ha... I offered the woman with my child to Professor Gast's
Jenova Project. When Sephiroth was still in the womb, we took the cells of
Jenova... HA, HA, HA!!

Cloud: I can't believe you're the one who did this... The illusionary crime
against Sephiroth...

Hojo: Heee, hee, hee, hee! No you're wrong! It's my desire as a scientist!
Heee, hee, hee, hee! I... was defeated by my desire to become a scientist. I
lost the last time as well. I've injected Jenova's cells into my own body!
Heee, hee, hee! Here are...... Heee, hee, hee! ...my results!!

Cloud's group fights Hojo. After Cloud’s group defeats all of Hojo’s form…

Cloud: ......

Cid: #$*&#*$#&.

Barret: Anyway... that's the end of the cannon...

Later, Cloud’s group embarks the Highwind. In the cockpit…

Cait Sith: Shinra's...... finished.

Cloud: Meteor's gonna fall in about......

Red XIII: Seven more days. That's what Grandfather said.

Cloud: Red XIII...... You want to see everyone in Cosmo Canyon again?

Red XIII: .........yes.

Cloud: (to Barret) You want to see Marlene, right?

Barret: Don't ask me that.

Cloud: We'll beat Sephiroth... Then, if we don't release the power of Holy in
seven days...... There won't be a planet left to protect. If we can't beat
Sephiroth... It's as good as death for us. We'll just go a few days sooner than
the rest who'll die from Meteor.

Barret: Don't be thinkin' you're gonna lose before you even fight!

Cloud: No! What I meant was... What are we all fighting for? I want us all to
understand that. Save the planet... for the future of the planet... Sure,
that's all fine. But really, is that really how it is? For me, this is a
personal feud. I want to beat Sephiroth. And settle my past. Saving the planet
just happens to be part of that. I've been thinking. I think we all are
fighting for ourselves. For ourselves... and that someone... something... what
ever it is, that's important to us. That's what we're fighting for. That's why
we keep up this battle for the planet.

Barret: You're right... It sounds cool sayin' it's to save the planet. But I
was the one who blew up that Mako Reactor...... Lookin' back on it now, I can
see that wasn't the right way to do things. I made a lot of friends and
innocent bystanders suffer... ...At first, it was revenge against Shinra. For
attackin' my town. But now...... Yeah. I'm fightin' for Marlene. For Marlene...
For Marlene's future... Yeah... I guess I want to save the planet for Marlene's
sake...

Cloud: Go and see her. Make sure you're right, and come back. All of you. Get
off the ship and find out your reasons for yourselves. I want you to make sure.
Then I want you to come back.

Cid: Maybe ain't none of us'll come back. Meteor's gonna kill us anyway. Let's
just forget any useless struggling!

Cloud: I know why I'm fighting. I'm fighting to save the planet, and that's
that. But besides that, There's something personal too... A very personal
memory that I have. What about you all? I want all of you to find that
something within yourselves. If you don't find it, then that's okay too. You
can't fight without a reason, right? So, I won't hold it against you if you
don't come back.

Cloud’s other group left the scene. Later, Cloud and Tifa remains in the
cockpit.

Cloud: What are you going to do, Tifa?

Tifa: Did you forget? I'm... all alone. I don't have anywhere to go.

Later outside of the parked Highwind, Cloud and Tifa sits on a hill.

Tifa: Everyone's gone...

Cloud: Yeah, we don't have anywhere or anyone to go home to.

Tifa: You're right... But... I'm sure someday... they'll come back, don't you
think?

Cloud: Hmm... I wonder...? Everyone has an irreplaceable something they're
holding on to... But this time, our opponent...

Tifa: Hmm... But that's all right, even if no one comes back. As long as I'm
with you... As long as you're by my side... I won't give up even if I'm scared.

Cloud: ............ Tifa......

Tifa: No matter how close we are... We were for apart... before this. But when
we were in the Lifestream surrounded by all those screams of anguish, I thought
I heard your voice... ...sniff... you probably won't remember this... But deep
in my heart I heard you calling my name... Or at least I thought I did...

Cloud: Yeah... At the time I heard you calling me. You were calling me back
from the stream of consciousness in the Lifestream. After all, I promised. That
if anything were to ever happen to you, I would come to help.

Tifa: Cloud...? Do you think the stars can hear us? Do you think they see how
hard we're fighting for them?

Cloud: I dunno... But... Whether they are or not, we still have to do what we
can. And believe in ourselves... Someday we'll find the answer. Right, Tifa?
That's what I learned from you when I was in the Lifestream.

Tifa: Yeah...... that's right...

Cloud: Hey Tifa...... I...... There are a lot of things I wanted to talk to you
about. But now that we're together like this, I don't know what I really wanted
to say... I guess nothing's changed at all... Kind of makes you want to laugh...

Tifa: Cloud... Words aren't the only thing that tell people what you're
thinking...

Cloud: ............

Later, during the middle of the night...

Cloud: ............It's almost dawn...

Tifa: H, huh...?

Cloud: Sorry. Did I wake you...? It's almost dawn, Tifa.

Tifa: Umm... G, good morning... Cloud. Give me a little longer... Just a little
bit longer... This day will never come again... So let me have this moment...

Cloud: Yeah... okay. This is probably the last time we'll have together......

The next morning...

Tifa: .........

Cloud: We'd better go.

Tifa: But, I still...!?

Cloud: It's all right, Tifa. You said so yourself yesterday. At least we don't
have to go on alone.

Tifa: Yes... That's right!

Cloud: Okay! Let's go!

Cloud and Tifa embarks the Highwind.

Tifa: The airship is too big for just the two of us. Yeah, it's a little lonely
without everyone.

Cloud: Don't worry. It'll be okay. I'll make a big enough ruckus for everyone.
Besides, I'm the pilot. No more flying around casually like before. We won't
have time to feel lonely.

Tifa: Huh!?

Cloud: It's moving...... Barret! Cid!

Barret: O, oh......is that okay with you?

Cloud: Red XIII!

Tifa: Why didn't you tell me!?

Red XIII: But, you know, Cid.

Cid: Hey, Red XIII. If you butt in now, you never know what they'll say
later......

Tifa: ......Were you watching?

Cloud: Vincent!

Vincent: Why such a puzzled look? You don't want me to come?

Cloud: No, it's just that you're always so cold. I thought you didn't care what
was happening.

Vincent: Cool? Hmm...... I guess that's just how I am, sorry.

Barret: Well lookey-here. The Shinra Manager's come back.

Cait Sith: Uh, excuse me but... I wanted to come with the main group, but I
couldn't get away...... SO some people in Midgar took me in. I know I have a
stuffed animal body, but I'll work really hard!

Barret: I guess that's everyone.

Red XIII: No, Yuffie's missing.

Barret: She ain't gonna show up. 'Least this time she ain't steal our materia.
Guess we gotta be thankful for that.

Yuffie: How could you say that!? I came all the way here after being seasick as
a dog! I didn't go through all that just to have you guys have the best parts
all to yourselves!

Cloud: Welcome back, Yuffie.

Yuffie: Gee, Cloud......that's so nice of you to say that. ......You sick?
Well, whatever. I'm gonna be in my reserved seat in the
hall......waiting......upp! ......Urk!

Cloud: Thanks everyone.

Barret: We didn't come back for your spikey headed ass! We came back for
Marlene. Guess it's jes' my...... whatcha call, feelings or somethin' I, uh I
ain't got no words now......

Red XIII: ......Although she's not here, she left us a window of opportunity...

Cid: We can't let it go like this.

Cloud: ......Aerith. She was smiling to the end. We have to do something, or
that smile will just freeze like that. Let's go all together. Memories of
Aerith... ...Although she should've returned to the planet by now, something
stopped her and now she's stuck...... We've got to let go of Aerith's memory.

Cid: Has anyone here changed their mind?

Cloud: I'm counting on you, Cid.

Cid: Yeah, yeah...... There are 2 levers here that've been buggin' me for a
while now... Let me try them out. All right, so what should I do? You decide,
Cloud.

Cloud: This is our last battle. Our target is the North Cave. Our enemy
is...... Sephiroth! So let's move out!

We watch a movie of the Highwind activating the speed boosters.

Cloud: We're almost to the North Cave! We're on our way, Sephiroth!

Cid: Man, I'm going to stick it to him!

Cloud: What is it, Cid?

Cid: Errrrggh! Some incredible force! Losing... control......!

The pilots arrived at the scene.

Cid: Get the hell outta here, flunkies! Didn't I tell you all to go home!?

Crew: Yes, sir. This is our home!!

Cid: Oh ma--...... stop trying to act so cool. All right, you jokers! Hold me
down with everything you got!! Geronimo!!

END OF DISC 2
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
04: DISC 3 Game Script

The Highwind later landed on the Crater. Cloud's group proceeds to the North
Cave. Eventually, Cloud’s group arrived in the area to the Lifestream.

Cloud: All right, everyone, let's mosey.

Cid: Damn! Again! Stop sayin' it like a wimp! Can't you say 'Move out!' or
somethin'?

Cloud: Move out!!

Suddenly, a mysterious noise can be heard.

Barret: What?

Red XIII: Look at the number...

Cid: #$*#&$*#! They're comin' out in full force!

Barret: Cloud! You go first!

Cloud: I'm fighting here too.

Barret: Shu'up! It won't do us no good wit' everyone back here!

Cid: Barret's right. You take two of us with you and go first. The rest'll
catch up with ya later.

Tifa: Is this like a practice run before the real thing?

Cait Sith: Yeah, a major practice run...

Yuffie: Heh heh, I'm fine with that. (It's probably more fun then fighting
Sephiroth down there.)

Vincent: Hmm, this might be fun to pass time.

Cloud's folks heard another roar.

Red XIII: They're coming! They're already on the floor next to us!

Barret: Cloud! Hurry up and make up your mind!

Cloud chose Cid and Barret for his group.

Cloud: All of you! Later!

Tifa: We'll meet up later.

Cloud's group heads down.

Cloud: Where are we...?

Cid: What the hell!

Cloud: Jenova...!? It's coming!!

Cloud's group fight Jenova-SYNTHESIS. After Cloud’s group defeats
Jenova-SYNTHESIS, we watch a movie of Cloud's group falling to the planet's
core. In there.

Tifa: Owwww......

Cloud: Tifa!?

Tifa: Cloud...... Cloud... So we did end up together... Uuuugh...!!

Sephiroth appeared at the scene.

Cloud: Sephiroth!!

Barret: Ugh... Is this...... the true power of Sephiroth?

Cid: My... my body... I can't control my body... Uuugh!?

Red XIII: My front legs...... my hind legs...... my tails about to tear off!!

Cait Sith: This is definitely not good...... He's way outta our league...

Yuffie: I, I don't know if I can... go on...

Tifa: Cloud... Cloud...

Cloud: Ugh... ugh... ...there... It's there...

Tifa: Cloud...?

Cloud: ...Holy... Holy... is there... The Holy is shining...... Aerith's prayer
is shining......!

Tifa: Holy...... Aerith......

Cloud: It's not over yet... This isn't the end yet!!

After everyone formed their attack position...

Cloud: Aerith's memories... Our memories... We came to tell you... our
memories... Come Planet! Show us your answer! And Sephiroth!! To the settling
of everything!!

Cloud's group fights Bizarro-Sephiroth. After Cloud’s group defeats
Bizarro-Sephiroth, Cloud's group’s begins the final fight against Safer
Sephiroth. After Cloud’s group defeats Safer-Sephiroth, Cloud's group appeared
in the Crater.

Cloud: This is all we could do.

Barret: Wait! What about Holy? What's gonna happen to the Planet?

Cloud: That... I don't know. Isn't the rest up to the Planet?

Tifa: ...You're right. We've done all that we could do.

Cloud: All right, everyone. It's no use thinking about it. We'll leave all our
worries here. Let's go home proud.

Suddenly, Cloud is reacting strangely.

Tifa: What happened?

Cloud: ......I feel it...

Tifa: What......

Cloud: He's still...... here. Still......

Tifa: Cloud!?

Cloud: He's laughing...

Tifa: Cloud!

A soul of Cloud fell into the Lifestream. We watch the final movie of Cloud
being pulled into the Lifestream. Suddenly, Cloud saw Sephiroth and then they
both scowl at each other. Cloud’s true final fight is none other then
Sephiroth. Cloud unleashes his ultimate Limit Break attack Omnislash. After
that, with his face is covered with blood, Sephiroth finally disappears from
the scene for good. Then, green lights appeared around Cloud.

Cloud: .........Lifestream?

Cloud came back to his sense and suddenly, the ground was collapsing. Tifa
attempts to reach Cloud's hands and suddenly, Tifa fell off the collapsing
ground. Cloud held Tifa’s hand and grabbed the ledge of the Crater in the nick
of time.

Cloud: .....I think I'm beginning to understand.

Tifa: What?

Cloud: An answer from the Planet... the Promised Land...

Tifa: I think I can meet her... there. Yeah, let's go meet her.

Cloud and Tifa climbed up safely to the surface of the Crater.

Cloud: Hey, where is everyone?

Barret: Heeey!

Tifa: I'm glad you're all safe!

Barret: They all seem to be safe, too. But... now what're we going to do?

Red XIII: Holy should be moving soon and that means this place will...

Cid: Oh, Lady Luck don't fail me now...

Suddenly, Cid drops his cigarette in and the Highwind fell downwards. Cloud’s
group boards the Highwind. Holy then came out of the Crater along with the
Highwind. Cloud’s group in the Highwind fell back and grabbed on to something
as the Highwind falls out piece by piece.

Cid: Shit!!

Cid pulled the emergency switch and unleashes the emergency Highwind form.
Meanwhile at Kalm Town...

Marlene: The flower girl?

Marlene looked out side and saw Meteor attacking Midgar with whirlwinds. Holy
then came to attack Meteor. However, Meteor did not get destroyed. Meanwhile in
the
Highwind...

Barret: Wait a damn minute! What's going to happen to Midgar? We can't let that
happen!

Cait Sith: (unhappy) I had everyone take refuge in the slums, but the way
things are now...

Red XIII: It's too late for Holy. Meteor is approaching the Planet. Holy is
having the opposite effect. Forget Midgar, we've gotta worry about the Planet!

Later Tifa saw something.

Tifa: What's that?

Lifestream came out of the ground everywhere.

Barret: What the hell is that......?

Cloud: ......Lifestream.

In Kalm Town.

Marlene: It's coming.

Lifestream approaches closer and collides with Meteor and is destroyed. Aerith
can be seen for the last time. Then the credits roll. 500 Years Later, Red XIII
lives to that year that Midgar is full of green environments. Red XIII with his
two cubs, roars towards Midgar. This ends our story and the game.

THE END
