-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
                       F I N A L   F A N T A S Y   I X
-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
                    Final Fantasy IX Walkthrough and FAQ
                               (Final Version)
                                (Part 2 of 2)
                      For Playstation(tm) (US version)
                                By: “A” Tadeo
                          Created: November 12, 2000
                       Date last Updated: July 11, 2001
                       Mail me at: ff9@edsamail.com.ph
                      Home Page: http://surf.to/aaronph


*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=-*=
                  T H A N K   Y O U   E V E R Y O N E ! ! !

Thank you to everyone who read my guide. Thanks for your support and all of 
your compliments. You don’t know how happy I am. But, most especially to our 
big boss, Mr. Jeff Veasey (CjayC). Without him and GameFAQs, I wouldn’t be 
able to bring you this guide. He gave me (as well as all the other authors at 
GameFAQs) the chance to help you out in your time of need and curiosity. =)

During the past few months, I tried my best to give everyone what they need 
about this fabulous game. I’m happy that my efforts aren’t put in vain and 
that I’m able to help a lot of gamers out there. Sorry for those who e-mailed 
me and received no response. I have a tight schedule and I’m following my e-
mail policy (rarely, I answer some of them). 

Now, that I have a PS2, I’ll bring you even more of what I can do with one of 
the most anticipated games ever. The next Final Fantasy In-line for release. 
I’ll definitely go along with you once more through Final Fantasy X. That’s 
all for now. Again, thank you very much. Have a nice day.
-=*-=*-=*-=*-=*-=*-=*-=*-=*-=*-=*-=*-=*-=*-=*-=*-=*-=*-=*-=*-=*-=*-=*-=*-=*-=


NOTE: As this will be the final version of the guide, I won’t accept any e-
mails regarding contributions and suggestions anymore. But I’m welcoming 
questions if you have any. Thank you. And please read the E-mail policy.

Now, for the walkthrough, if you want a walkthrough, which will guide you 
directly in finishing the game only, use Elranzer’s quick walkthrough at 
GameFAQs. A lot of people just wants to finish the game and doesn’t care 
about other things. So, I’ll refer you to Elranzer’s Guide. His guide is one 
of the best and easiest to follow.

I also want to commend 2 nice persons for their perseverance and dedication 
to their sites. Jeff (CjayC) for GameFAQs.com and Al Amaloo of VGStrategies. 
They are very responsible and I admire their efforts. Keep up the good work 
guys! 

I would also like to commend the great Kao Megura for his excellent guides! 
As a matter of fact, he is the one who inspired me to create guides. Thanks a 
lot. BTW, I really hate those thieves who stole his works.

Very Special thanks also to another one of the best guide writers ever to 
appear in gaming history. None other than, Dingo Jellybean. His guides are 
fantastic, you’ll definitely get what you need and that’s an example of how a 
true guide writer should be. Thanks Dingo!

One more note. I’d like to thank YSF (Yee Seng Fu) for coordinating with me 
for our guides. It’s so nice to see 2 guide writers for the same game 
exchange information. We did this so that each of us can have a more complete 
guide. My guide will walk you through the game and give you the lists for 
everything. But if you want the more in-depth secrets and side-quests, I 
really recommend that you check out his Chocobo Hot and Cold and Side 
Quests/Secrets guides. They’re the most in-depth I’ve ever seen. Thanks again 
YSF!


                           -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
                                 DISCLAIMER
                           =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

This Walkthrough/FAQ is created for personal use only. You must not use it 
for anything that gains profit. Specifically Magazines, Game Guides, 
Commercial Web Sites. You’re also not allowed to rip off part/s of this 
Walkthrough/FAQ and put it on your own Walkthrough/FAQ. Anyone doing this is 
guilty of “plagiarism”, the act of stealing and passing off of ideas and 
words of another as one’s own without crediting the source.

You also cannot use this Walkthrough/FAQ as a guide for you to make your own 
Walkthrough/FAQ, you must do everything there is to do in the game yourself 
or have others give info about your game and give them proper credit. You can 
copy the layout though. 

You can put this Walkthrough/FAQ on your non-commercial or non-profit web 
site provided that not a single character has been edited or removed and you 
MUST have permission from me in order to do so. You can also, print a copy of 
the entire walkthrough or a part of it, provided you only use it for personal 
purposes. Remember “You don’t have to steal, just ask.” - B.O.F.III


                           -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
                                INTRODUCTION
                           =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

Hello everyone! To those of you who know me, welcome back! :) This is my 
fourth project at GameFAQs. Seeing that this game will be the last among the 
Final Fantasy series that will grace the Sony Playstation console, I decided 
to create one too :) As with the objectives of other guides, I too would like 
to help out gamers out there who wants to know various infos about the game. 
I’m not finished with my guides, but I’m sure that I can manage. I’m a die 
hard RPG fan and I’ll do my best to make this guide as helpful as possible.

Now, let’s talk about the game itself. The 9th installment in the Final 
Fantasy series is really, IMHO, the best Final Fantasy ever! (It’s second 
best RPG to me because I like Chrono Cross more). Final Fantasy IX is a whole 
new world and is not a sequel of any of the previous Final Fantasies. The 
hero is the game is Zidane, a member of a band of bandits called Tantalus. It 
was then that fate led them to meet the princess of Alexandria, Garnet. 
Princess Garnet is really not happy about everything around her inside the 
castle at Alexandria. She then decided to leave the castle for good and that 
led her to meet Zidane. I won’t spoil you anymore so let’s start the guide!


                           -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
                                  CONTENTS
                           =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

                             ----- Part I -----

                     i.     E-Mail Policy                      
                     I.     Updates/Revisions
                     II.    Game Information
                            A. Game Controls         
                            B. Game Menus
                            C. Game Basics
                               - Moving About
                               - Attacking and Battle system
                               - The elements
                               - Active Time Events 
                               - Trance System
                               - Abilities
                               - Leveling Up
                               - Moogle Info
                               - Game Over
                            D. Character Stats
                            E. Good/Bad Status Effects
                     III.   Character Information
                            A. Main Characters
                            B. Supporting Characters
                            C. Arch-Enemies
                     IV.    Walkthrough
                            A. Disk 1 Walkthrough
                            B. Disk 2 Walkthrough
                            C. Disk 3 Walkthrough
                            D. Disk 4 Walkthrough
                               Side Quests and Secrets
                               1. Chocobo Mini-Guide and Paradise Treasures
                               2. Madain Sari
                               3. Mognet Central
                               4. Quan’s Dwelling
                               5. Treno
                                  a. The Stellazzios
                                  b. Treno Knight’s House
                                  c. Card Stadium
                                  d. Auction House
                                  e. Excalibur
                               6. Excalibur 2
                               7. Qu’s Marshes
                               8. Ozma
                               9. Ragtime Mouse (Pop Quiz)
                               10. Special Battles
                               11. Character Renaming
                               12. Gaining EXP, AP, and Money
                               13. The 4-armed Man at Daguerreo
                               14. Mr. Morrid’s Coffee
                               15. Carbuncle’s Secrets
                               16. Final Fantasy III OST
                               17. Beating the Yans
                               18. Special Abilities
                     V.     Tetra Master
                            A. Rules
                            B. Card List
                            C. Friendly Monsters/Weapon/
                               Rare Cards Location
                            D. Card Game Strategies
                     VI.    All about Chocobos
                            A. Chocobos
                            B. Chocobo Forest
                            C. Chocobo Lagoon
                            D. Chocobo Air Garden
                            E. Chocobo’s Paradise
                            F. Chocobo Treasure Hunting
                            G. Abilities Guide
                               1. Ability List
                               2. Dead Pepper Abilities
                            H. Chocograph Pieces

                             ----- Part II -----
 
                     ii.    E-mail Policy
                     VII.   Ability List
                            A. Character Specific Abilities
                     VIII.  Summon Magic
                     IX.    Blue Magic
                     X.     Items
                     XI.    Key Items
                     XII.   Maps
                     XIII.  Active Time Events (ATE) List
                     XIV.   Moogle Locations
                     XV.    Equipments
                            A. Weapons
                            B. Helmets
                            C. Armor
                            D. Wrist Band
                            E. Accessories
                     XVI.   Shops
                     XVII.  FAQs
                     XVIII. Enemy List
                     XIX.   Gameplay Tips
                     XX.    Fantasy Trivia
                     XXI.   Melodies of Life
                     XXII.  Soundtrack Song List
                     XXIII. Other Stuff
                            A. Words of Wisdom
                            B. Scenes of Humor
                            C. Sad Moments
                            D. Screw Ups
                     XXIV.  Guide Translations
                     XXV.   Credits


                               -=-=-=-=-=-=-
                               E-MAIL POLICY
                               =-=-=-=-=-=-=

For the past few months, I’ve been receiving such a great number e-mails and 
some of them are quite annoying (just 2 of them though). So, I decided to put 
up this e-mail policy as a guide for you if you want to send an e-mail to me. 
Here are the things that you must do/must not do in sending an e-mail 
regarding this guide and any of my other guides:

Do’s
----
1. Send me a question, which cannot be found on my guide. I will be more that 
happy to help you.
2. Try to be specific in order for me to understand what you’re trying to ask 
me.
3. You can send in your questions/other e-mails in text or HTML format. No 
executables.
4. Check first the latest version of the guide before sending questions, 
contributions, etc.  If you use later versions, the answer/s to your 
questions might have been answered already and will be most likely to be 
ignored.
5. If I happen to forget you, just e-mail me nicely and I’ll respond to you 
ASAP.

Don’ts
------
1. Don’t send any questions that can be answered from my guide. And don’t be 
persistent in doing so.
2. Don’t send nonsense e-mails like “I want to marry you!” “Can you buy me 
this or that?” etc.
3. Don’t say bad words. F$#k Y%u! and the likes.
4. And, don’t send Chain letters! Please!
5. Don’t send executable files (.exe, .com) as an attachment. I don’t want 
any Trojans wandering around. 
6. No spamming (repeated messages).

If you do any one of the “Don’ts”, your e-mail will be ignored then deleted. 
Period.

Virus Info
----------
There are still some people who are infected with the Snow White virus. You 
may receive an e-mail that is from hahaha@sexyfun.net that’s all about Snow 
White and the seven dwarves. Here’s what you can do to check if you are 
infected or not. Now, send a mail to yourself. This may sound crazy, but it 
works. If you receive another e-mail, which has the snow White virus, at the 
same time or a little later than the ones you send to yourself, it means that 
you are probably infected with the virus. To confirm this, check the IP 
Address and the STMP server indicated in the virus e-mail. Don’t worry about 
infection, as long as you DON’T open the attachment, you’re safe. But, if the 
IP Address and the STMP server in the virus e-mail is the same as the ones in 
your e-mail, you are 100% infected. So, run a virus scanner. 

To prevent any virus from infiltrating, DO NOT open executable file such as 
(*.exe, *.com, *.scr, *.pif, *.bat) even if they’re from a trusted friend or 
a family member. They may not know that they are infected. JPEGs and TXT 
files are safe. :)


                          -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
                              UPDATES/REVISIONS
                          =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Final Version Update (Started: July 9, 2001)
--------------------------------------------
I polished the guide and found some mistakes and a few things to add. 
Hopefully, this will be the final update for the guide. Thanks again 
everyone. Thanks to YSF for the information exchange.
        - Melodies of Life (Japanese Lyrics)
        - Summoning Secrets
        - Credits Section Update

Final Version
-------------
A Momentous Occasion! My Final Update on my 21st birthday! It’s sad to say 
but this will be the last update I’ll make for the guide. I certainly hope 
you enjoyed the game as well as the guide. Thank you again for your support. 
(PS: That enemy list sure is a hard thing to complete)
        - Ability List Complete!
        - Key Items finished!
        - Blue Magic Complete!
        - Equipment Info Complete!
        - Enemy List finished!
        - FAQ #1 final update (sites)
        - Sad Moments Update
        - Credits Section Update

Version 1.43 (Started: April 7, 2001)
--------------------------------------
        - Ability List correction
        - Blue Magic Update (some tips in learning Blue Magic)
        - Weapon List correction
        - Italian Translation on the go!
        - FAQ #1 update (new sites again)
        - Fantasy Trivia Update
        - Credits Section Update

Version 1.42 (Started: January 31, 2001)
----------------------------------------
        - Major Spelling/Grammar check
        - Blue Magic List Update
        - Equipment List fixed
        - FAQ #1 update (new sites)
        - Soundtrack Songs list
        - Guide Translations Section (new)
        - Credits Section Update

Version 1.41 (Started: January 16, 2001)
----------------------------------------
        - FAQ #1 Update (new sites, again!)
        - Moogle Locations Update
        - Fantasy Trivia Update
        - Credits Section Update

Version 1.40 (Started: January 13, 2001)
----------------------------------------
        - Contact Info Update
        - More Detailed Table of Contents
        - Summon Magic information
        - Key Items Update
        - Shop List Update
        - FAQ #1 Update (new sites)
        - Credits Section Update

Version 1.39 (Started: January 11, 2001)
----------------------------------------
        - ATE List Update
        - Enemy List Update
        - Words of Wisdom Update
        - FAQ #1 Update (new site)
        - Credits Section Update

Version 1.38 (Started: January 8, 2001)
---------------------------------------
        - Blue Magic List Revision
        - New Words of Wisdom
        - FAQ #1 Update (new site)
        - Fantasy Trivia Update
        - Credits Section Update

Version 1.37 (Started: January 5, 2001)
---------------------------------------
        - Major Ability List Update
        - FAQ #1 Update (new site)
        - new FAQ (about Phoenix Pinion)
        - Fantasy Trivia update
        - Words of Wisdom Update
        - Screw Up Section Update
        - Sad Moments Section (New)
        - Credits Section Update

Version 1.36 (Started: January 4, 2001)
---------------------------------------
        - Individual Ability List finished1
        - Key Items Update
        - FAQ Section Update
        - Enemy List Update
        - Credits Section Update

Version 1.35 (Started: January 2, 2001)
---------------------------------------
        - Ability List Update
        - Weapon List Update
        - Shop List Update

Version 1.34 (Started: December 31, 2000)
-----------------------------------------
        - Ability List Update
        - Key Items Update
        - Enemy List Update
        - Screw Up Section Update
        - Credits Section Update

Version 1.33 (Started: December 29, 2000)
-----------------------------------------
        - Ability List Update
        - Summon Magic info finished
        - Moogle Locations Update (New Moogles and Alphabetically Arranged)
        - ATE List Update
        - Key Items Update
        - Enemy List Update
        - Shop List Update
        - FAQ #1 Update (New Site)
        - Melodies of Life Lyrics
        - Fantasy Trivia Update
        - Words of Wisdom Update
        - Credits Section Update

Version 1.32 (Started: December 24, 2000)
-----------------------------------------
        - Blue Magic List Finished
          - I’ll revise this list in the next update
        - ATE List Update
        - Key Items Update
        - Enemy List Update
        - Screw-Up Section Update
        - FAQ #1 Update (New Sites)
        - FAQ #7 Update (New Strategy)
        - Fantasy Trivia Update
        - Gameplay Tips Update (Important)
        - Credits Section Update

Version 1.31 (Started: December 19, 2000)
-----------------------------------------
        - Ability List Update
        - Key Items Update
        - Maps Section Update
        - FAQ #1 Update (New Sites once more)
        - Enemy List Update
        - Fantasy Trivia Update
        - Words of Wisdom Update
        - Credits Section Update

Version 1.30 (Started: December 18, 2000)
-----------------------------------------
        - Ability List Update
        - Blue Magic List Update
        - Key Items Update
        - FAQ #1 Update (New Sites)
        - Fantasy Trivia Update
        - Scenes of Humor Update
        - Credits Section Update
  
Version 1.29 (Started: December 15, 2000)
-----------------------------------------
        - e-mail policy revised
        - New Sections
          Character specific abilities (includes update)
          Words of Wisdom, Scenes of Humor and Screw Ups
        - Ability List Update
        - Map Section Finished!
        - Ability List Update
        - Equipment List Update
        - Enemy List Update
        - Fantasy Trivia Update
        - Credits Section Update

Version 1.28 (Started: December 14, 2000)
-----------------------------------------
        - Equipment List Update
 
Version 1.27 (Started: December 13, 2000)
-----------------------------------------
        - Transferred Special Battles and Pop Quiz to Side Quests at Part 1
        - Blue Magic Section Update
        - Map Section Update (new Chocobo Air Garden location)
        - New Gameplay Tip
        - Fantasy Trivia Update
        - Credits Section Update

Version 1.26 (Started: December 11, 2000)
-----------------------------------------
        - Ability List Update
        - Maps Section Update
        - Equipment List Update (Freya and Amarant’s Weapons, Hats/Helms,
          Armlets/Wristbands, Excalibur)
        - FAQ Section Update (new ones plus, corrections for the old ones)
        - Shop List Update
        - Enemy List Update
        - Credits Section Update

Version 1.25 (Started: December 10, 2000)
------------------------------------------
        - Transferred Stellazzio, Treno Auction House to Side Quest, Qu’s 
          Marshes, to Side Quests Section in Part 1.
        - Summon Magic Complete
        - Fantasy Trivia Section Update
        - Enemy List Update
        - FAQ #1 Update (new sites)
        - Credits Section Update

Version 1.24 (Started: December 9, 2000)
----------------------------------------
        - Ability List Update
        - Summon Magic Update
        - Maps Section Update (Outer Continent)
        - Accessory List Update
        - Enemy List Update
 
Version 1.23 (Started: December 7, 2000)
----------------------------------------
For those of you who are asking why are the EXPs in my monster list is 
different from what you got, I have an explanation at the Enemy List Section.
        - Ability List Update
        - Blue Magic List Update
        - Weapon List Update
          - Steiner’s Swords
          - Quina’s Forks
        - Treno Auction House Update
        - Moogle Locations Update
        - World Map Update (Qu’s Marshes)
        - Enemy List Update
        - Shop List Update
          - Black Mage Village at Disc 4
        - FAQ #12 (About Stealing) It’s easy to steal now!
        - New FAQs
        - Fantasy Trivia Update
        - Credits Section Update

Happy Birthday to my favorite singer! Ms. Olivia Lufkin from Japan.
Omedetou Gozaimasu!

Version 1.22 (Started: December 6, 2000)
----------------------------------------
        - New Gameplay Tip
        - FAQ #1 Update (new sites)
          - New FAQ
        - Credits Section Updated (a lot)

Version 1.21 (Started: December 5, 2000)
----------------------------------------
I’ve started on the maps. It’s hard but I’m having fun. Please tell me your 
comments about my ASCII art of the map. Thanks in advance. :)
        - Ability List Update
        - Started the Maps Section
        - Qu Marshes (New Section)
        - Weapon Section Update (Zidane, Dagger, and Vivi)
        - Shop List Update

Version 1.20 (Started: December 4, 2000)
----------------------------------------
        - Stellazzio Complete List
        - Blue Magic List Update
        - Treno Auction House Update
        - Fantasy Trivia Update
        - Credits Section Update

Version 1.19 (Started: December 3, 2000)
----------------------------------------
I’ll be concentrating on the maps now. :)
For the contributors, don’t worry I have your contributions in a single file 
and I’m ready to include them. Thank you very much for your efforts.
        - Ability List Update
        - Stellazzio Update
        - Treno Auction House Update
        - Shop List Update (Legendary Synthesist)
        - FAQ #11 update (about stealing)
        - Credits Section Update

Version 1.18 (Started: December 3, 2000)
----------------------------------------
        - Mognet Central (new section)
        - Equipments for Dagger
        - Credits Section Update
    
Version 1.17a (Started: December 2, 2000)
----------------------------------------
From here on, I decided to update both parts at the same time. I got confused 
when I tried to update one part only. This also to the benefit of the 
Webmasters who have my guide and also to everyone.
        - Fantasy Trivia Update
        - Credits Section Update

Version 1.16 (Started: December 1, 2000)
----------------------------------------
Ok. It seems that the file will be a lot bigger than I thought. So, I decided 
to split the guide into 2. This is for consideration to those who have Dial-
Up Connections (like me). People are starting to e-mail me about the size of 
the file. So, here it is. For any suggestions/comments/contributions, just e-
mail me at my address at the top of this document. Thank you.

NOTE: The previous Revision Histories are in the First Part. I’ll be 
separating the Revision histories from now on.


                         =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
                              ABILITY LIST
                         -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Here’s the list of the different abilities that your character can learn. 
Here’s a sample:

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ABILITY NAME             Type: Support or Action

Description: I’ll explain what the ability actually do when equipped/used.

Learned from: -                     
AP Needed:  -
Magic Stones needed: -
Elemental: Fire, Ice, etc. (if applicable)
Character: characters that can use the ability
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Here are the abilities listed in alphabetical order:

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ABILITY UP               Type: Support

Description: When equipped, you can learn your abilities faster.

Learned from: Stardust Rod, Brigandine, Diamond Gloves, Green Beret,
              Silk Robe, Lapis Lazuli, Ribbon
AP Needed:    60
Magic Stones needed: 3
Elemental: none
Character: Everyone

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ACCURACY +               Type: Support

Description: Increases you chances in hitting the opponent using physical 
attacks.

Learned from: Black Hood, Power Vest, Lapis Lazuli, Genji Armor, Power Wrist
AP Needed:    30
Magic Stones needed: 2
Elemental: none
Character: Zidane, Steiner, Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ADD STATUS               Type: Support

Description: This will enable the Status added to your weapons.

Learned from: Feather Hat, Bone Wrist, Thunder Gloves, Twist Headband,
              Bracer, Chimera Armlet, Glass Buckle
AP Needed:    20
Magic Stones needed: 3
Elemental: none
Character: Zidane, Freya, Steiner, Vivi, Quina, Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ALERT                    Type: Support

Description: This will prevent back attacks at your party.

Learned from: Barbut, Ninja Gear, Germinas Boots
AP Needed:    60
Magic Stones needed: 4
Elemental: none
Character: Amarant, Steiner, Zidane

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ANNOY                    Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Inflicts the ‘Trouble’ Status Effect

Learned from: Sargatanas, Gladius
AP Needed:    50
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: none
Character: Zidane

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ARMOR BREAK              Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This will destroy the armor of your enemies. Not all armor can 
be broken though.

Learned from: Mythril Sword
AP Needed:    30
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Steiner

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
AURA                     Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Casts Auto-Life and Regen on one party member

Learned from: Duel Claws
AP Needed:    25
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
AUTO-FLOAT               Type: Support

Description: Automatically casts Float at the party member at the start of 
the battle and until the battle’s duration.

Learned from: Feather Boots
AP Needed:    20
Magic Stones needed: 6
Elemental: none
Character: Everyone

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
AUTO-HASTE              Type: Support

Description: When a Battle begins, the character that is equipped with this 
ability will be in Haste Status.

Learned from: Running Shoes
AP Needed:    65
Magic Stones needed: 9
Elemental: none
Character: Everyone

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
AUTO-LIFE               Type: Support

Description: When equipped, that character will automatically use Phoenix 
Down (or magic if she has a Life spell), to revive himself/herself if he/she 
gets KO’d.

Learned from: Rebirth Ring
AP Needed:    130
Magic Stones needed: 12
Elemental: none
Character: Everyone

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
AUTO-POTION             Type: Support

Description: When equipped, that character will automatically use Potions 
when (If you have Potions, he/she will use Potion, if not, he/she will use Hi 
Potions) he/she received damage directly (not damage due to another character 
who has the Trouble Status).

Learned from: Mythril Vest, Demon’s Vest, Running Shoes, Magician Robe,
              White Robe, Extension
AP Needed:    30
Magic Stones needed: 3
Elemental: none
Character: Everyone

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
AUTO-REFLECT            Type: Support

Description: When a Battle begins, the character that is equipped with this 
ability will be equipped with Reflect.

Learned from: Reflect Ring
AP Needed:    75
Magic Stones needed: 15
Elemental: none
Character: Everyone

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
AUTO-REGEN              Type: Support

Description: When a Battle begins, the character that is equipped with this 
ability will be in Regen. He/she will regenerate from time to time until the 
end of the battle.

Learned from: Golem’s Flute, Golden Hairpin, Brave Suit, Light Robe,
              Angel Earrings, Maiden Prayer, Carabini Mail, Glutton’s Robe
AP Needed:    35
Magic Stones needed: 10
Elemental: none
Character: Everyone

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BEAST KILLER             Type: Support

Description: Your attacks will deal more damage to beasts/animals.

Learned from: Broad Sword, Egoist’s Armlet, Flash Hat, Leather Wrist, 
              Black Belt, Moonstone, Bronze Sword, Platina Armor
AP Needed:    55
Magic Stones needed: 4
Elemental: none
Character: Steiner, Zidane, Freya, Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BIO                      Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This Magic is Poison-based and will sometimes inflict the Poison 
Status to the target.

Learned from: Oak Staff
AP Needed:    40
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BIRD KILLER              Type: Support

Description: Your attacks will deal more damage to bird/flying enemies.

Learned from: Bronze Armor, Chain Mail, Adaman Vest, Yellow Scarf
AP Needed:    25
Magic Stones needed: 3
Elemental: none
Character: Steiner, Zidane, Freya, Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BLIND                    Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This Magic will blind your character thus the accuracy of 
his/her/its attack will be greatly lowered. 

Learned from: Multina Racket, Magician Shoes
AP Needed:    40
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Dagger

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BLIZZARA                 Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This will use Level 2 Ice Attack magic.

Learned from: Ice Staff, Opal
AP Needed:    50
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: Ice
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BLIZZAGA                 Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This will use Level 3 Ice attack magic.

Learned from: Octagon Rod
AP Needed:    85
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: Ice
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BLIZZARD                 Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This will use Level 1 Ice Attack magic.

Learned from: Leather Wrist
AP Needed:    25
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: Ice
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BODY TEMP                Type: Support

Description: Protects against the Heat and Freeze Status Effects.

Learned from: Jade Armlet, Diamond, Fairy Earrings, Madain’s Ring,
              Holy Miter, Genji Armor, Obelisk, Glutton’s Robe
AP Needed:    20
Magic Stones needed: 4
Elemental: none
Character: Everyone

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BOOST                    Type: Support

Description: Raises the Strength of Eidolons

Learned from: Pumice Piece
AP Needed:    190
Magic Stones needed: 12
Elemental: none
Character: Dagger, Eiko

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BREAK                    Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Does Earth Damage and sometimes causes Petrify.

Learned from: Cypress Pile
AP Needed:    55
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: Earth
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BRIGHT EYES              Type: Support

Description: The character with this ability will be immune to the 
Darkness/Blindness Status Effect.

Learned from: Iron Helm, Ritual Hat, Feather Hat
AP Needed:    25
Magic Stones needed: 4
Elemental: none
Character: Steiner, Zidane, Freya, Amarant
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BUG KILLER               Type: Support

Description: Your attacks will deal more damage to bugs/insects.

Learned from: Bronze Helmet, Mythril Gloves, Mythril Armlet
AP Needed:    50
Magic Stones needed: 3
Elemental: none
Character: Steiner, Zidane, Freya, Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHAKRA                   Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Restore a small amount of HP and MP of a party member.

Learned from: Cat’s Claws, Leather Plate
AP Needed:    30
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHARGE!                  Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This will let your endangered party members (near death) attack 
the enemy. 

Learned from: Coral Sword, Aegis Gloves
AP Needed:    30
Magic Stones needed: 4
Elemental: none
Character: Steiner

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHEMIST                  Type: Support

Description: When enabled, it doubles the potency or healing items such as 
Potions, etc.

Learned from: Cotton Robe, Barette, Madain’s Ring, Grand Armor
AP Needed:    15
Magic Stones needed: 4
Elemental: none
Character: Dagger, Steiner, Freya

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHERRY BLOSSOM          Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Deals non-elemental damage to all enemies.

Learned from: Kain’s Lance
AP Needed:    40
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Freya

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CLEAR-HEADED            Type: Support

Description: The character with this ability cannot be afflicted with the 
“Confused” Status.

Learned from: Magician Shoes, Lamia’s Tiara, Magic Armlet, Circlet, 
              Green Beret, Dark Gear, Gold Helm
AP Needed:    25
Magic Stones needed: 5
Elemental: none
Character: Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Freya

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CLIMHAZZARD              Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Deals non-elemental damage to enemies.

Learned from: Excalibur
AP Needed:    70
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: non-elemental
Character: Steiner

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
COMET                    Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Hurl Comet at the opponent.

Learned from: Cypress Pile
AP Needed:    55
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: non-elemental
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CONCENTRATE              Type: Support

Description: Increase Damage of Magic Attacks

Learned from: Robe of Lords, Rosetta Ring
AP Needed:    80
Magic Stones needed: 10
Elemental: none
Character: Dagger, Eiko

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CONFUSE                  Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This Magic will make your enemies Confused. They attack ANYONE 
randomly.

Learned from: Lamia’s Tiara, Asura’s Rod
AP Needed:    35
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Dagger

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
COUNTER                  Type: Support

Description: When equipped, that character will counter attack after 
receiving damage. That character doesn’t Counter every time though.

Learned from: Power Belt, Ritual Hat, Power Vest, Venetia Shield,
              Cat’s Claws, Poison Knuckles, Mythril Claws, Dragon Claws,
              Avenger, Kaiser Knuckles, Duel Claws, Rune Claw,
              Red Hat
AP Needed:    70
Magic Stones needed: 8
Elemental: none
Character: Freya, Steiner, Zidane, Amarant, Quina

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
COUNTDOWN                Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Casts doom on the enemy

Learned from: Kaiser Knuckles
AP Needed:    40
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
COVER                    Type: Support

Description: The character with this ability will take damage done by the 
enemies to another member of the party.

Learned from: Linen Cuirass, Mythril Armor, Gauntlets, Red Hat
AP Needed:    20
Magic Stones needed: 6
Elemental: none
Character: Steiner, Freya, Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CURA                     Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This will use the Level 2 Curative Magic that will restore more 
HPs.

Learned from: Golem’s Flute, Healing Rod, Barette
AP Needed:    40
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Eiko, Dagger

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CURAGA                   Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This will use the Level 3 Curative Magic that will restore more 
HPs.

Learned from: Whale Whisker, Wizard Rod, Angel’s Flute
AP Needed:    155
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Eiko, Dagger

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CURE                     Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This will use the Level 1 Curative Magic that will restore your 
characters’ HP.

Learned from: Silk Shirt, Rod, Magic Racket
AP Needed:    20
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Eiko, Dagger

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DARKSIDE                 Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Reduces HP to cause Shadow Damage to enemies.

Learned from: Blood Sword
AP Needed:    30
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Steiner

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DEATH                    Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Causes instant Death on opponents.

Learned from: Black Hood
AP Needed:    45
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: none
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DEMI                     Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Does Gravity damage to opponent

Learned from: Cypress Pile, Amethyst, Black Belt
AP Needed:    30
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: none
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DEMI SHOCK               Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Damages the enemy depending on its HP

Learned from: Avenger
AP Needed:    50
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DETECT                   Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This skill determines the items/equipments that you can steal 
from an enemy.

Learned from: Mage Masher, Orichalcon
AP Needed:    40
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Zidane

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DEVIL KILLER            Type: Support

Description: The character with this ability deals more damage to Evil/Dark 
Enemies

Learned from: Chain Plate, Thunder Gloves, Demon’s Vest, Cross Helm
AP Needed:    25
Magic Stones needed: 2
Elemental: none
Character: Zidane, Steiner, Freya, Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DISPEL                   Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Removes the effect of a status effect magic. Doesn’t work on 
Negative Status Effects.

Learned from: Tiger Racket, Siren’s Flute
AP Needed:    35
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: none
Character: Eiko

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DISTRACT                 Type: Support

Description: Decreases the physical attack accuracy of the opponent

Learned from: Shield Armor, Judo Uniform, Diamond, Reflect Ring
AP Needed:    30
Magic Stones needed: 5
Elemental: none
Character: Steiner, Freya, Zidane

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOOMSDAY                 Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Causes Shadow damage to all targets.

Learned from: Mace of Zeus
AP Needed:    150
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DRAGON BREATH           Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Reduces the HP of all enemies

Learned from: Dragon’s Hair
AP Needed:    205
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Freya

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DRAGON KILLER           Type: Support

Description: The character with this ability deals more damage to Dragon-Type 
enemies.

Learned from: Javelin, Barbut
AP Needed:    70
Magic Stones needed: 3
Elemental: none
Character: Freya

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DRAGON’S CREST          Type: Action

Description: Deals Physical Damage to enemies

Learned from: Holy Lance, Kain’s Lance
AP Needed:    45
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Freya

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DRAIN                    Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This Magic will Drain the HP of the Target and total HP drained 
will be added to the caster’s HP.

Learned from: Oak Staff
AP Needed:    60
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ESUNA                    Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Removes various status effects.

Learned from: Siren’s Flute, Angel Flute, Rubber Suit
AP Needed:    80
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Eiko

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
EYE 4 EYE                Type: Support

Description: Raises the Counter Attack activation Rate.

Learned from: Flash Hat, Ninja Gear, Kaiser Helm, Rubber Suit
AP Needed:    60
Magic Stones needed: 5
Elemental: none
Character: Zidane, Steiner, Freya, Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
FIRA                     Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This will use Level 2 Fire Attack magic on a Single enemy.

Learned from: Flame Staff, Mage’s Hat, Power Belt, Topaz
AP Needed:    50
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: Fire
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
FIRAGA                   Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This will use Level 3 Fire attack magic on a Single enemy.

Learned from: Octagon Rod
AP Needed:    75
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: Fire
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
FIRE                     Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This will use basic Fire Attack magic on a Single enemy.

Learned from: Mage Staff, Leather Hat
AP Needed:    25
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: Fire
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
FLARE                    Type: Action (Skill)

Description: The ultimate Fire Attack Magic

Learned from: Black Robe
AP Needed:    95
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: Fire
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
FLEE                     Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This will let your party escape from the battle but you’ll drop 
some of your Gil.

Learned from: Dagger, Ultima Weapon
AP Needed:    40
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: none
Character: Zidane

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
FLEE-GIL                 Type: Support

Description: This will let your party escape from the battle and you’ll still 
receive Gil after escaping.

Learned from: Wrist, Desert Boots, Gold Choker
AP Needed:    45
Magic Stones needed: 3
Elemental: none
Character: Zidane, Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
FLOAT                    Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This will literally make the character float. Earth-based 
attacks will be useless against a FLOATed character.

Learned from: Stardust Rod, Lamia’s Tiara, Lamia’s Flute, Feather Boots
AP Needed:    20
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Dagger, Eiko

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
FULL-LIFE                Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Revives a KO’d Party member and restores his/her entire HP.

Learned from: Siren’s Flute, Light Robe
AP Needed:    90
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: none
Character: Eiko

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GAMBLE DEFENSE           Type: Support

Description: Increases/Raises defenses occasionally. 

Learned from: Power Vest, Adaman Hat, Twist Headband, Barette
AP Needed:    20 
Magic Stones needed: 1
Elemental: none
Character: Zidane, Freya, Quina, Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GUARDIAN MOG             Type: Support

Description: Protects with unseen Force

Learned from: Ribbon, Madain’s Ring
AP Needed:    30
Magic Stones needed: 5
Elemental: none
Character: Eiko

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
HALF MP                  Type: Support

Description: MP usage will be cut by half.

Learned from: Protect Ring, Light Robe
AP Needed:    140
Magic Stones needed: 11
Elemental: none
Character: Vivi, Dagger, Eiko, Quina

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
HASTE                    Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Reduces the time for the ATB to fill up. In short, increases 
Speed.

Learned from: Emerald, Running Shoes
AP Needed:    30
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: none
Character: Eiko

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
HEALER                   Type: Support

Description: Restore target’s HP. When the character with the Healer Support 
Ability attacks anyone, he/she will regain a small amount of HP depending of 
the Attack Power of the attacker.

Learned from: Healing Rod, Garnet
AP Needed:    30
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
HIGH JUMP                Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Jump higher to gain more jump attack power.

Learned from: Dragon Mail
AP Needed:    75
Magic Stones needed: 4
Elemental: none
Character: Freya

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
HIGH TIDE                Type: Support

Description: When equipped, this will enable you to Trance faster

Learned from: Needle Fork, Sapphire Gem, Jade Armlet, Dark Hat, Gaia Gear,
              Magician Cloak, Grand Helm, Demon’s Mail, Ganji Gloves,
              Partisan, Minerva’s Plate, all Forks
AP Needed:    35 (Forks need 250)
Magic Stones needed: 8
Elemental: none
Character: Everyone

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
HOLY                    Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Causes Holy Damage to enemies

Learned from: White Robe, Angel’s Flute
AP Needed:    11
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Eiko

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
HP + 10%                 Type: Support

Description: Increases the MAX HP by 10%.

Learned from: Chain Mail, Aquamarine, Germinas Boots, Judo Uniform
AP Needed:    20
Magic Stones needed: 4
Elemental: none
Character: Steiner, Freya, Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
HP + 20%                 Type: Support

Description: Increases the MAX HP by 20%.

Learned from: Mantra Band, Adaman Hat, Battle Boots, Black Belt, 
              Genji Helmet, Maximillian, Defense Gloves
AP Needed:    40
Magic Stones needed: 8
Elemental: none
Character: Amarant, Freya, Zidane, Steiner

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
INITIATIVE               Type: Support

Description: Increases the chance of a first strike, or a pre-emptive attack.

Learned from: Battle Boots, Obelisk
AP Needed:    95
Magic Stones needed: 5
Elemental: none
Character: Freya

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
INSOMNIAC                Type: Support

Description: The character with this ability will be immune to the Sleep 
Status Effect.

Learned from: Coral Ring, Bandana, Magician’s Cloak, Gaia Gear,
              Holy Miter, Mythril Helm
AP Needed:    30
Magic Stones needed: 5
Elemental: none
Character: Everyone

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
JELLY                    Type: Support

Description: The character with this ability will be immune to petrification.

Learned from: Bronze Vest, Bronze Gloves, Circlet, Dark Hat, Dark Gear,
              Mythril Armor, Diamond Gloves
AP Needed:    35
Magic Stones needed: 4
Elemental: none
Character: Everyone (except Steiner)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
JEWEL                    Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Extracts Ore from a target.

Learned from: Hamelin
AP Needed:    50
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Eiko

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
LAI STRIKE               Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Knocks out the target.

Learned from: Rune Blade
AP Needed:    40
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Steiner

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
LANCER                   Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Freya will attack the enemy at the same time chop off a few MPs 
of the enemy.

Learned from: Coral Ring, Partisan
AP Needed:    20
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Freya

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
LEVEL UP                 Type: Support

Description: When equipped, the character will receive 50% more EXP thus 
he/she will level up faster.

Learned from: Iron Helm, Egoist’s Armlet, Fairy Earrings, Rosetta Ring,
              Extension, Pearl Rouge
AP Needed:    50
Magic Stones needed: 7
Elemental: none
Character: Everyone

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
LIFE                     Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This Magic will revive a KO’d party member and restores 1/10 of 
his/her total HP.

Learned from: Mythril Rod, Golem’s Flute, Healing Rod, Whale Whisker,
              Rebirth Ring
AP Needed:    30
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Dagger, Eiko

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
LOCOMOTION              Type: Support

Description: This will prevent the ‘Stop’ Status Effect

Learned from: Survival Vest, Black Hood, Golden Skullcap, Demon’s Vest,
              Ninja Gear, Plate Mail
AP Needed:    30
Magic Stones needed: 4
Elemental: none
Character: Everyone (except Steiner)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
LONG REACH               Type: Support

Description: Back Row deals the same damage with the Back row using normal 
physical attacks

Learned from: Protect Ring, Thief Hat
AP Needed:    170
Magic Stones needed: 16
Elemental: none
Character: Zidane, Steiner, Freya, Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
LOUDMOUTH               Type: Support

Description: The character with this ability cannot be silenced.

Learned from: Mage’s Hat, Golden Hairpin, Silk Robe, White Robe, Pearl Rogue
AP Needed:    40
Magic Stones needed: 4
Elemental: none
Character: Vivi, Dagger, Eiko, Quina

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
LUCKY SEVEN              Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Physical attack based on luck. High damage if successful

Learned from: Exploda, Gladius, Rune Tooth, The Tower, Thief Hat
AP Needed:    85
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Zidane

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
LUNA                     Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Casts Berserk on everyone in the party.

Learned from: Trident
AP Needed:    30
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Freya

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MAGIC BREAK              Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Decreases the magic power of your opponent.

Learned from: Flame Saber
AP Needed:    25
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Steiner

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MAGIC ELEM NULL          Type: Support

Description: Nullifies a certain Elemental type

Learned from: Protect Ring
AP Needed:    115
Magic Stones needed: 13
Elemental: none
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MAN EATER                Type: Support

Description: The character with this ability will deal more damage to Human 
enemies.

Learned from: Coral Ring, Mythril Gloves, Bandana, Coronet
AP Needed:    20
Magic Stones needed: 2
Elemental: none
Character: Zidane, Freya, Steiner, Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MASTER THIEF             Type: Support

Description: Enables you to steal rare items from enemies. 

Learned from: Thief Gloves
AP Needed:    50
Magic Stones needed: 5
Elemental: none
Character: Zidane

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MENTAL BREAK             Type: Action (Skill)

Description: this will lower the Magic Defense of your enemy

Learned from: Ice Brand, Gold Helm
AP Needed:    45
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Steiner

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
METEOR                   Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Causes Non-elemental damage to the enemy

Learned from: High Mage Staff
AP Needed:    95
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: non-elemental
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MIGHT                    Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Temporarily increases the power of Physical attacks of the 
target.

Learned from: Priest’s Racket
AP Needed:    25
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: none
Character: Eiko

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MILLIONAIRE              Type: Support

Description: Increases the amount of Gil you get after battles.

Learned from: Yellow Scarf
AP Needed:    100
Magic Stones needed: 5
Elemental: none
Character: Quina

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MINI                     Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This will inflict the Mini Status effect on your enemies.

Learned from: Magic Racket, Asura’s Rod, Feather Boots
AP Needed:    35
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: none
Character: Eiko, Dagger

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MINUS STRIKE            Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Deals physical damage to enemies. Damage depends on the 
difference of the HP and MP of Steiner.

Learned from: Rubber Helm, Iron Sword
AP Needed:    35
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Steiner

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MP + 10%                 Type: Support

Description: Increase the Maximum MP by 10%.

Learned from: Magician Cloak, Emerald, Extension, Magician Shoes
AP Needed:    50
Magic Stones needed: 4
Elemental: none
Character: Quina, Freya, Eiko, Quina

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MP + 20%                 Type: Support

Description: Increase the Maximum MP by 20%.

Learned from: Black Robe, Angel Earrings
AP Needed:    30
Magic Stones needed: 8
Elemental: none
Character: Vivi, Dagger, Eiko

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MP ATTACK                Type: Support

Description: When equipped, this will use 5 MPs to increase the damage you 
deal with your physical attack.

Learned from: Power Belt, Red Hat, Battle Boots, Cross Helm
AP Needed:    50
Magic Stones needed: 5
Elemental: none
Character: Steiner, Zidane, Freya, Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MUG                      Type: Support

Description: Automatically attack while stealing.

Learned from: Survival Vest, Chimera Armlet, Thief Hat 
AP Needed:    65
Magic Stones needed: 3
Elemental: none
Character: Zidane

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
NO MERCY                 Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Deals non-elemental damage to enemy.

Learned from: Dragon’s Claws, Duel Claws
AP Needed:    45
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ODIN’S SWORD             Type: Support

Description: Attack with the Eidolon Odin

Learned from: Ancient Aroma
AP Needed:    50
Magic Stones needed: 5
Elemental: none
Character: Dagger

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
OSMOSE                   Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Drains MPs from the enemy and amount of MP drained will be added 
to the caster’s MP.

Learned from: Gaia Gear, High Mage Staff
AP Needed:    70
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
POISON                   Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This will inflict the Poison Status effect on your enemies.

Learned from: Lightning Staff
AP Needed:    35
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: none
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
POWER BREAK              Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Decreases the power of your opponent.

Learned from: Diamond Sword
AP Needed:    40
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Steiner

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
POWER THROW              Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Decreases the power of the throw ability.

Learned from: Bracer
AP Needed:    125
Magic Stones needed: 19
Elemental: none
Character: Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
POWER UP                 Type: Support

Description: Raises the strength of the Chakra Ability.

Learned from: Golden Skullcap
AP Needed:    30
Magic Stones needed: 3
Elemental: none
Character: Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
PROTECT GIRLS            Type: Support

Description: The character with this ability will take damage done by the 
enemies to the girls in you party.

Learned from: Leather Shirt, Butterfly Sword
AP Needed:    35
Magic Stones needed: 4
Elemental: none
Character: Zidane

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
REFLECT                  Type: Action (Skill)

Description: When you cast Reflect on a party member, Magic attacks doe to 
him/her will bounce back at the enemy. Some magic can’t be reflected.

Learned from: Stardust Rod, Mythril Racket, Reflect Ring, Ruby
AP Needed:    20
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Dagger, Eiko

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
REFLECT X2               Type: Support

Description: Doubles the Effect of Reflect 

Learned from: Black Robe, Rosetta Ring
AP Needed:    110
Magic Stones needed: 17
Elemental: none
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
REFLECT-NULL             Type: Support

Description: Nullifies reflect and attacks

Learned from: Robe of Lords, Pearl Rouge
AP Needed:    45
Magic Stones needed: 7
Elemental: none
Character: Dagger, Vivi, Eiko

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
REI’S WIND               Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Casts Regen on all party members.

Learned from: Mythril Spear, Gold Helm, Angel Earrings
AP Needed:    40
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Freya

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
RESTORE HP               Type: Support

Description: Automatically restores HP when near death.

Learned from: Platinum Helm, Grand Armor, Promist Ring, Minerva’s Plate,
              Brave Suit
AP Needed:    100
Magic Stones needed: 8
Elemental: none
Character: Steiner, Freya, Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
RETURN MAGIC             Type: Support

Description: Returns any Magic to the Spell Caster.

Learned from: Brigandine, Coronet
AP Needed:    170
Magic Stones needed: 9
Elemental: Any
Character: Amarant, Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
REVIVE                   Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Revives a KO’d party member

Learned from: Rebirth Ring
AP Needed:    55
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SACRIFICE                Type: Action (Skill)

Description: When used, the one with the Ability will lose HP to recover 
another party member’s HP

Learned from: Exploda, Masamune
AP Needed:    35
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Zidane

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SILENCE                  Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This Magic will silence your enemies therefore making them 
unable to use Magic.

Learned from: Mythril Rod, Magic Armlet, Asura’s Rod, Priest’s Racket,
              Lamia’s Flute
AP Needed:    30
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Dagger, Eiko

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SIX DRAGONS              Type: Action (Skill)

Description: I don’t know the exact effect yet.

Learned from: Heavy Lance
AP Needed:    25
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: none
Character: Freya

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SHELL                    Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This Magic will increase the SHELLed character’s Magic Defense.

Learned from: Mythril Rod, Multina Racket, Mythril Racket, Wizard Rod,
              Cotton Robe, Gold Choker, Moonstone
AP Needed:    30
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Dagger, Eiko

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SHOCK                    Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Causes Physical Damage to enemy.

Learned from: Ragnarok
AP Needed:    60
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Steiner, Beatrix

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SLEEP                    Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This will put enemies into sleep. If you attack a sleeping enemy 
with physical attacks, it will awaken. Use Magic if you don’t want the enemy 
to wake up.

Learned from: Flame Staff
AP Needed:    20
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: none
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SLOW                     Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This Black Magic will slow down your opponents ATB. 

Learned from: Magus Hat, Ice Staff
AP Needed:    20
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SPARE CHANGE             Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Causes non-elemental damage to enemies using Gil.

Learned from: Poison Knuckles
AP Needed:    90
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
STEAL GIL                Type: Action

Description: Allows you to steal Gil from enemies

Learned from: Glass Armlet, Yellow Scarf
AP Needed:    40
Magic Stones needed: 5
Elemental: none
Character: Zidane

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
STOCK BREAK             Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Causes non-elemental damage to enemies

Learned from: Ultima Sword
AP Needed:    35
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Steiner

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
STONA                    Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This Magic will heal the Petrify or Gradual Petrify status 
effect.

Learned from: Multina Racket, Lamia’s Flute
AP Needed:    25
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Dagger, Eiko

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
STOP                     Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This will temporarily halt the opponent’s ATB.

Learned from: Oak Staff
AP Needed:    25
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
STONE KILLER             Type: Support

Description: When equipped, that character will deal more damage to earth-
based/stone-based enemies.

Learned from: Adaman Vest, Power Vest, Platinum Helm, Gold Armor
AP Needed:    30
Magic Stones needed: 4
Elemental: none
Character: Zidane, Steiner, Freya, Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
THIEVERY                 Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Damages the enemy while stealing.

Learned from: Angel Bless, The Tower
AP Needed:    100
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: none
Character: Zidane

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
THUNDAGA                 Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This will use Level 3 Thunder attack magic on a Single enemy.

Learned from: Octagon Rod
AP Needed:    80
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: Thunder
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
THUNDARA                 Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This will use Level 2 Thunder attack magic on a Single enemy.

Learned from: Lightning Staff, Peridot
AP Needed:    50
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: Thunder
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
THUNDER                  Type: Action (Skill)

Description: This will use basic Thunder attack magic on a Single enemy.

Learned from: Silk Shirt, Glass Buckle
AP Needed:    50
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: Thunder
Character: Vivi

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
THUNDER SLASH            Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Deals Thunder Damage to enemy

Learned from: Defender, Ragnarok
AP Needed:    30
Magic Stones needed: None
Elemental: Thunder
Character: Steiner

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
UNDEAD KILLER            Type: Support

Description: The character with this ability will deal a bigger damage to 
Undead Monsters.

Learned from: Silver Gloves, Ritual Hat, Headgear, N-Kai Armlet,
              Plate Mail
AP Needed:    20
Magic Stones needed: 2
Elemental: none
Character: Steiner, Zidane, Freya, Amarant

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
WHITE DRAW              Type: Action (Skill)

Description: Restores MP of all party members by drawing them from the enemy.

Learned from: Emerald, Ice Lance, Kain’s Lance
AP Needed:    90
Magic Stones needed: 0
Elemental: none
Character: Freya

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

-------------------------------
A. CHARACTER SPECIFIC ABILITIES
-------------------------------

For the Normal Abilities of the characters, please check the abilities list 
for more info.

=========
1. ZIDANE
=========

SKILLS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name          | MP Usage  | Description                       | Learned From
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Flee                0       Escape from the Battles             Dagger/
                                                                Ultima Weapon 
Detect              0       See what items/equipments you can   Mage Masher/
                            steal from the enemy                Orichalcon
What’s That!?       2       Gives you a chance for a first      Butterfly
                            strike. The enemy will face away    Sword
                            from your party.
Soul Blade          6       Inflicts the Status that is added   The Ogre
                            to your sword even without the 
                            Add Status Ability equipped.
Annoy               4       Inflicts Trouble on your enemy.     Gladius/
                                                                Sargatanas
Sacrifice          32       Sacrifices self for other           Exploda/
                            party members.                      Masamune
Lucky Seven         6       Physical attack that depends on     Gladius/
                            luck. Huge damage when successful.  Exploda/
                                            Rune Tooth/The Tower/Thief Hat
Thievery            8       Attacks your enemy physically.      Angel Bless/
                                                                The Tower
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

DYNE ABILITIES (Trance)
* All of them are non-elemental attacks based from the in-game description.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name                | MP Usage  
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Free Energy            10 MP     
Tidal Flame            12 MP     
Scoop Art              14 MP
Shift Break            16 MP
Stellar Circle 5       24 MP
Meo Twister            32 MP
Solution 9             48 MP
Grand Lethal           60 MP
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

ABILITIES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name                | Learned from
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Auto-Reflect          Reflect Ring
Auto-Float            Feather Boots
Auto-Haste            Running Shoes
Auto-Regen            Golden Hairpin, Brave Suit
Auto-Life             Rebirth Ring
HP+20%                Adaman Hat, Mantra Band, Battle Boots, Black Belt
Accuracy+             Black Hood, Power Vest, Lapis Lazuli
Distract              Judo Uniform, Diamond, Reflect Ring
Long Reach            Thief Hat, Protect Ring
MP Attack             Red Hat, Battle Boots, Power Belt
Bird Killer           Adaman Vest, Yellow Scarf
Bug Killer            Mythril Armlet
Stone Killer          Adaman Vest, Power Vest
Undead Killer         Headgear, N-Kai Armlet
Devil Killer          Chain Plate, Demon’s Vest
Beast Killer          Flash Hat, Egoist’s Armlet, Leather Wrist, Black Belt,
                      Moonstone
Man Eater             Bandana, Coronet
Master Thief          Thief Gloves
Steal Gil             Glass Armlet, Yellow Scarf
Add Status            Feather Hat, Twist Headband, Bone Wrist, Bracer,
                      Chimera Armlet, Glass Buckle
Gamble Defense        Adaman Hat, Twist Headband, Power Vest
High Tide             Dark Hat, Gaia Gear, Jade Armlet, Sapphire
Counter               Ritual Hat, Power Vest, Power Belt
Protect Girls         Butterfly Sword, Leather Shirt
Eye 4 Eye             Flash Hat, Ninja Gear
Body Temp             Jade Armlet, Diamond, Fairy Earrings, Madain’s Ring
Alert                 Ninja Gear, Germinas Boots
Level Up              Egoist’s Armlet, Fairy Earrings, Rosetta Ring
Ability Up            Green Beret, Brigandine, Lapis Lazuli, Ribbon
Flee-Gil              Wrist, Desert Boots, Gold Choker
Insomniac             Bandana, Gaia Gear, Coral Ring
Antibody              Mantra Band, Survival Vest, Dragon Wrist, Glass Armlet,
                      Glass Buckle
Bright Eyes           Feather Hat, Ritual Hat
Jelly                 Circlet, Dark Hat, Bronze Vest, Dark Gear
Auto-Potion           Demon’s Vest, Mythril Vest, Running Shoes
Locomotion            Black Hood, Golden Skullcap, Demon’s Vest, Ninja Gear,
                      Survival Vest
Clear Headed          Circlet, Green Beret, Dark Gear, Magician Shoes
Mug                   Thief Hat, Survival Vest, Chimera Armlet
Bandit                Mythril Dagger, N-Kai Armlet
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

=========
2. DAGGER
=========

* For the description of the White Magic, check the abilities list. For the 
eidolons, check the Summons Magic section below.

SUMMONS/EIDOLONS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name                | MP Usage | Learned from
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shiva                    24      Opal
Ifrit                    26      Topaz
Ramuh                    22      Peridot
Atomos                   32      Amethyst
Odin                     28      Dark Matter 
Leviathan                42      Aquamarine
Bahamut                  36      Garnet
Ark                      80      Pumice
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHITE MAGIC
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name                | MP Usage | Learned from
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cure                      6      Rod, Magic Racket, Silk Shirt
Cura                     10      Healing Rod, Golem’s Flute, Barette
Curaga                   22      Wizard Rod, Whale Whisker, Angel Flute
Life                      8      Mythril Rod, Healing Rod, Whale Whisker,
                                 Golem’s Flute, Rebirth Ring
Panacea                   8      Rod, Air Racket
Scan                      4      Air Racket, Desert Boots
Stona                     8      Multina Racket, Lamia’s Flute
Shell                     6      Mythril Rod, Multina Racket, Mythril Racket,
                                 Wizard Rod, Cotton Robe, Gold Choker, 
                                 Moonstone
Protect                   6      Rod, Mythril Racket, Wizard Rod, Steepled
                                 Hat, Desert Boots
Silence                   8      Mythril Rod, Asura’s Rod, Priest’s Racket,
                                 Lamia’s Flute, Magic Armlet
Mini                      8      Magic Racket, Asura’s Rod, Feather Boots
Reflect                   6      Stardust Rod, Mythril Racket, Reflect Ring,
                                 Ruby
Confuse                   8      Asura’s Rod, Lamia’s Tiara
Berserk                   6      Magic Racket
Blind                     6      Multina Racket, Magician Shoes
Float                     6      Stardust Rod, Lamia’s Flute, Lamia’s Tiara,
                                 Feather Boots
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

ABILITIES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name                | Learned from
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Auto-Reflect          Reflect Ring
Auto-Float            Feather Boots
Auto-Haste            Running Shoes
Auto-Regen            Golden Hairpin, Light Robe, Angel Earrings, 
                      Maiden Prayer
Auto-Life             Rebirth Ring
MP+20%                Angel Earrings
Healer                Healing Rod, Garnet
Chemist               Cotton Robe, Barette, Madain’s Ring
Reflect-Null          Robe of Lords, Pearl Rouge
Concentrate           Robe of Lords, Rosetta Ring
Half MP               Protect Ring, Light Robe
High Tide             Dark Hat, Gaia Gear, Magician Cloak, Jade Armlet, 
                      Sapphire
Body Temp             Holy Miter, Jade Armlet, Diamond, Fairy Earrings, 
                      Madain’s Ring
Level Up              Egoist’s Armlet, Extension, Fairy Earrings, 
                      Pearl Rouge, Rosetta Ring
Ability Up            Stardust Rod, Green Beret, Silk Robe, Amethyst, 
                      Lapis Lazuli, Ribbon
Insomniac             Bandana, Holy Miter, Gaia Gear, Coral Ring
Antibody              Mantra Band, Survival Vest, Dragon Wrist, Glass Armlet, 
                      Glass Buckle
Loudmouth             Golden Hairpin, Mage’s Hat, Silk Robe, White Robe, 
                      Pearl Rouge
Jelly                 Circlet, Dark Hat, Bronze Vest, Dark Gear
Auto-Potion           Demon’s Vest, Magician Robe, Mythril Vest, White Robe, 
                      Extension, Running Shoes 
Locomotion            Black Hood, Golden Skullcap, Demon’s Vest, 
                      Survival Vest
Clear Headed          Circlet, Green Beret, Lamia’s Tiara, Dark Gear, 
                      Magic Armlet, Magician Shoes
Boost                 Pumice Piece
Odin’s Sword          Ancient Aroma
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

=======
3. VIVI
=======

* For the description of the Black Magic, check the abilities list.

BLACK MAGIC
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name                | MP Usage | Learned from
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fire                      6      Mage Staff, Leather Hat
Fira                     12      Flame Staff, Mage’s Hat, Power Belt, Topaz
Firaga                   24      Octagon Rod
Sleep                    10      Flame Staff
Blizzard                  6      Leather Wrist
Blizzara                 12      Ice Staff, Opal
Blizzaga                 24      Octagon Rod
Slow                      6      Ice Staff, Magus Hat
Thunder                   6      Silk Shirt, Glass Buckle
Thundara                 12      Lightning Staff, Peridot
Thundaga                 24      Octagon Rod
Stop                      8      Oak Staff
Poison                    8      Lightning Staff
Bio                      18      Oak Staff
Osmose                    2      High Mage Staff, Gaia Gear
Drain                    14      Oak Staff
Demi                     18      Cypress Pile, Amethyst, Black Belt
Comet                    18      Cypress Pile
Death                    20      Black Hood
Break                    18      Cypress Pile
Water                    22      N-Kai Armlet
Meteor                   42      High Mage Staff
Flare                    40      Black Robe
Doomsday                 56      Mace of Zeus
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

ABILITIES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name                | Learned from
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Auto-Reflect          Reflect Ring
Auto-Float            Feather Boots
Auto-Haste            Running Shoes
Auto-Regen            Golden Hairpin, Light Robe
Auto-Life             Rebirth Ring
MP+20%                Black Robe
Healer                Garnet
Add Status            Feather Hat, Twist Headband, Bone Wrist, Bracer, 
                      Chimera Armlet, Glass Buckle
Reflect-Null          Robe of Lords
Reflectx2             Black Robe, Rosetta Ring
Magic Elem Null       Protect Ring
Half MP               Protect Ring, Light Robe
High Tide             Dark Hat, Gaia Gear, Magician Cloak, Jade Armlet, 
                      Sapphire
Body Temp             Holy Miter, Jade Armlet, Diamond, Fairy Earrings, 
                      Madain’s Ring
Level Up              Egoist’s Armlet, Fairy Earrings, Rosetta Ring
Ability Up            Green Beret, Amethyst, Lapis Lazuli, Ribbon
Insomniac             Bandana, Holy Miter, Gaia Gear, Coral Ring
Antibody              Mantra Band, Survival Vest, Dragon Wrist, Glass Armlet, 
                      Glass Buckle
Loudmouth             Golden Hairpin, Mage’s Hat
Jelly                 Circlet, Dark Hat, Bronze Vest, Dark Gear
Return Magic          Coronet, Brigandine
Auto-Potion           Demon’s Vest, Magician Robe, Mythril Vest, 
                      Running Shoes
Locomotion            Black Hood, Golden Skullcap, Demon’s Vest, 
                      Survival Vest
Clear Headed          Circlet, Green Beret, Lamia’s Tiara, Dark Gear, 
                      Magic Armlet, Magician Shoes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

==========
4. STEINER
==========

SWORD ARTS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name                | MP Usage | Learned from
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Darkside                  0      Blood Sword
Minus Strike              8      Iron Sword, Rubber Helm
Lai Strike               16      Rune Blade
Power Break               8      Diamond Sword
Armor Break               4      Mythril Sword
Mental Break              8      Ice Brand, Gold Helm
Magic Break               4      Flame Saber
Charge!                  10      Coral Sword, Aegis Gloves
Thunder Slash            24      Defender, Ragnarok
Stock Break              26      Ultima Sword
Climhazzard              32      Excalibur
Shock                    46      Ragnarok
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

SWORD MAGIC
* Depends on the Black Magic Vivi has learned
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name        | MP Usage 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fire              6
Fira             12
Firaga           30
Blizzard          6
Blizzara         12
Blizzaga         30
Thunder           6
Thundara         12
Thundaga         30
Bio              20
Water            26
Flare            60
Doomsday         50
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

ABILITIES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name                | Learned from
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Auto-Reflect          Reflect Ring
Auto-Float            Feather Boots
Auto-Haste            Running Shoes
Auto-Regen            Carabini Mail
Auto-Life             Rebirth Ring
HP+10%                Chain Mail, Aquamarine, Germinas Boots
HP+20%                Genji Helmet, Maximillian, Defense Gloves, 
                      Battle Boots, Black Belt
Accuracy+             Genji Armor, Lapis Lazuli
Distract              Shield Armor, Diamond, Reflect Ring
Long Reach            Protect Ring
MP Attack             Cross Helm, Battle Boots, Power Belt
Bird Killer           Bronze Armor, Chain Mail, Yellow Scarf
Bug Killer            Bronze Helm, Mythril Gloves
Stone Killer          Platinum Helm, Gold Armor
Undead Killer         Plate Mail, Silver Gloves
Devil Killer          Cross Helm, Thunder Gloves
Beast Killer          Bronze Sword, Broad Sword, Platina Armor, Black Belt,
                      Moonstone
Man Eater             Mythril Gloves
Add Status            Thunder Gloves, Glass Buckle
Chemist               Grand Armor, Madain’s Ring
High Tide             Grand Helm, Demon’s Mail, Genji Gloves, Sapphire
Counter               Venetia Shield, Power Belt
Cover                 Linen Cuirass, Mythril Armor, Gauntlets
Eye 4 Eye             Kaiser Helm
Body Temp             Genji Armor, Diamond, Fairy Earrings, Madain’s Ring
Alert                 Barbut, Germinas Boots
Level Up              Iron Helm, Fairy Earrings, Rosetta Ring
Ability Up            Diamond Gloves, Lapis Lazuli, Ribbon
Insomniac             Mythril Helm, Coral Ring
Antibody              Mythril Helm, Bronze Gloves, Glass Buckle
Bright Eyes           Iron Helm
Restore HP            Platinum Helm, Grand Armor, Promist Ring
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

========
5. FREYA
========

* For the description of the Dragon Ability, check the abilities list.

DRAGON
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name                | MP Usage | Learned from
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Lancer                   10      Partisan, Coral Ring
Rei’s Wind               12      Mythril Spear, Gold Helm, Angel Earrings
Dragon Breath            78      Dragon’s Hair
White Draw               36      Ice Lance, Kain’s Lance, Emerald
Luna                     12      Trident
Six Dragons              28      Heavy Lance
Cherry Blossom           46      Kain’s Lance
Dragon’s Crest           16      Holy Lance, Kain’s Lance
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

ABILITIES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name                | Learned from
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Auto-Reflect          Reflect Ring
Auto-Float            Feather Boots
Auto-Haste            Running Shoes
Auto-Regen            Carabini Mail
Auto-Life             Rebirth Ring
HP+10%                Chain Mail, Aquamarine, Germinas Boots
HP+20%                Genji Helmet, Defense Gloves, Battle Boots, Black Belt
MP+10%                Emerald, Extension, Magician Shoes
Accuracy+             Genji Armor, Lapis Lazuli
Distract              Shield Armor, Diamond, Reflect Ring
Long Reach            Protect Ring
MP Attack             Cross Helm, Battle Boots, Power Belt
Bird Killer           Bronze Armor, Chain Mail, Yellow Scarf
Bug Killer            Bronze Helm, Mythril Gloves
Stone Killer          Platinum Helm, Gold Armor
Undead Killer         Plate Mail, Silver Gloves
Dragon Killer         Javelin, Barbut
Devil Killer          Cross Helm, Thunder Gloves
Beast Killer          Platina Armor, Black Belt, Moonstone
Man Eater             Mythril Gloves
High Jump             Dragon Mail
Add Status            Thunder Gloves, Glass Buckle
Gamble Defense        Barette
Chemist               Grand Armor, Barette, Madain’s Ring
High Tide             Partisan, Grand Helm, Demon’s Mail, Minerva’s Plate,
                      Genji Gloves, Sapphire
Counter               Venetia Shield, Power Belt
Cover                 Linen Cuirass, Mythril Armor, Gauntlets
Eye 4 Eye             Kaiser Helm, Rubber Suit
Body Temp             Genji Armor, Diamond, Fairy Earrings, Madain’s Ring
Initiative            Obelisk, Battle Boots
Level Up              Iron Helm, Extension, Fairy Earrings, Pearl Rouge,
                      Rosetta Ring
Ability Up            Diamond Gloves, Lapis Lazuli, Ribbon
Insomniac             Mythril Helm, Coral Ring
Antibody              Mythril Helm, Bronze Gloves, Glass Buckle
Bright Eyes           Iron Helm
Restore HP            Platinum Helm, Grand Armor, Minerva’s Plate,
                      Promist Ring
Jelly                 Mythril Armor, Diamond Gloves
Auto-Potion           Extension, Running Shoes
Locomotion            Plate Mail
Clear Headed          Gold Helm, Magician Shoes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

=======
6. EIKO
=======

* For the description of the Eidolons and White Magic, check the abilities 
list.

SUMMONS/EIDOLONS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name                | MP Usage | Learned from
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Carbuncle                24      Ruby Stone
Fenrir                   30      Sapphire Stone
Phoenix                  32      Phoenix Pinion
Madeen                   54      Ribbon
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHITE MAGIC
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name                | MP Usage | Learned from
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cure                      6      Rod, Magic Racket, Silk Shirt
Cura                     10      Golem’s Flute, Barette
Curaga                   22      Angel Flute
Regen                    14      Fairy Earrings
Life                      8      Golem’s Flute, Rebirth Ring
Full-Life                24      Siren’s Flute, Light Robe
Panacea                   8      Air Racket
Stona                     8      Lamia’s Flute
Esuna                    20      Siren’s Flute, Angel Flute, Rubber Suit
Shell                     6      Multina Racket, Mythril Racket,
                                 Cotton Robe, Gold Choker, Moonstone
Protect                   6      Mythril Racket, Steepled Hat, Desert Boots
Haste                     8      Emerald, Running Shoes
Silence                   8      Priest’s Racket, Lamia’s Flute, Magic Armlet
Mini                      8      Magic Racket, Feather Boots
Reflect                   6      Mythril Racket, Reflect Ring, Ruby
Float                     6      Lamia’s Flute, Lamia’s Tiara, Feather Boots
Dispel                   16      Tiger Racket, Siren’s Flute
Might                    14      Priest’s Racket
Jewel                     4      Hamelin
Holy                     16      Angel Flute, White Robe
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

ABILITIES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name                | Learned from
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Auto-Reflect          Reflect Ring
Auto-Float            Feather Boots
Auto-Haste            Running Shoes
Auto-Regen            Golem’s Flute, Golden Hairpin, Light Robe
                      Angel Earrings, Maiden Prayer
Auto-Life             Rebirth Ring
MP+10%                Magician Robe, Emerald, Extension, Magician Shoes
MP+20%                Angel Earrings
Healer                Garnet
Reflect-Null          Robe of Lords, Pearl Rouge
Concentrate           Robe of Lords, Rosetta Ring
Half MP               Light Robe, Protect Ring
High Tide             Magician Cloak, Minerva’s Plate, Jade Armlet, Sapphire
Body Temp             Holy Miter, Jade Armlet, Diamond, Fairy Earrings,
                      Madain’s Ring
Level Up              Egoist’s Armlet, Extension, Fairy Earrings, Pearl Rouge
                      , Rosetta Ring
Ability Up            Green Beret, Silk Robe, Lapis Lazuli, Ribbon
Guardian Mog          Madain’s Ring, Ribbon
Insomniac             Bandana, Holy Miter, Gaia Gear, Coral Ring
Antibody              Mantra Band, Survival Vest, Dragon Wrist, Glass Armlet,
                      Glass Buckle
Loudmouth             Golden Hairpin, Mage’s Hat, Silk Robe, White Robe,
                      Pearl Rouge
Jelly                 Circlet, Dark Hat, Bronze Vest, Dark Gear
Auto-Potion           Demon’s Vest, Magician Robe, Mythril Vest, White Robe,
                      Extension, Running Shoes
Locomotion            Black Hood, Golden Skullcap, Demon’s Vest, 
                      Survival Vest
Clear Headed          Circlet, Green Beret, Lamia’s Tiara, Dark Gear,
                      Magic Armlet, Magician Shoes
Boost                 Pumice Piece
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

========
7. QUINA
========

For the Blue Magic, check it’s own Section in this guide. 

ABILITIES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name                | Learned from
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Auto-Reflect          Reflect Ring
Auto-Float            Feather Boots
Auto-Haste            Running Shoes
Auto-Regen            Golden Hairpin, Glutton’s Robe, Light Robe
Auto-Life             Rebirth Ring
MP+10%                Magician Robe, Emerald, Magician Shoes
Healer                Garnet
Add Status            Feather Hat, Twist Headband, Bone Wrist, Bracer,
                      Chimera Armlet, Glass Buckle
Gamble Defense        Adaman Hat, Twist Headband, Power Vest
Half MP               Light Robe, Protect Ring
High Tide             All Forks, Dark Hat, Gaia Gear, Magician Cloak,
                      Jade Armlet, Sapphire
Counter               Ritual Hat, Power Vest, Power Belt
Body Temp             Holy Miter, Glutton’s Robe, Jade Armlet, Diamond,
                      Fairy Earrings, Madain’s Ring
Level Up              Egoist’s Armlet, Fairy Earrings, Rosetta Ring
Ability Up            Green Beret, Silk Robe, Lapis Lazuli, Ribbon
Millionaire           Yellow Scarf
Insomniac             Bandana, Holy Miter, Gaia Gear, Coral Ring
Antibody              Mantra Band, Glutton’s Robe, Survival Vest,
                      Dragon Wrist, Glass Armlet, Glass Buckle
Loudmouth             Golden Hairpin, Mage’s Hat, Silk Robe
Jelly                 Circlet, Dark Hat, Bronze Vest, Dark Gear
Absorb MP             Promist Ring
Auto-Potion           Demon’s Vest, Magician Robe, Mythril Vest,
                      Running Shoes
Locomotion            Black Hood, Golden Skullcap, Demon’s Vest, 
                      Survival Vest
Clear Headed          Circlet, Green Beret, Lamia’s Tiara, Dark Gear,
                      Magic Armlet, Magician Shoes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

==========
8. AMARANT
==========

* For the description of the Flair abilities, check the abilities list.

FLAIR
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name             | MP Usage | Learned from
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Chakra                 4      Cat’s Claws, Leather Plate
Spare Change           6      Poison Knuckles
No Mercy              12      Dragon’s Claws, Duel Claws
Aura                  12      Duel Claws
Curse                 12      Mythril Claws, Kaiser Knuckles, Rune Claws 
Revive                20      Rebirth Ring
Demi Shock            20      Avenger
Countdown             16      Kaiser Knuckles
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

ABILITIES
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name                | Learned from
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Auto-Reflect          Reflect Ring
Auto-Float            Feather Boots
Auto-Haste            Running Shoes
Auto-Regen            Golden Hairpin, Brave Suit
Auto-Life             Rebirth Ring
HP+10%                Judo Uniform, Aquamarine, Germinas Boots
HP+20%                Adaman Hat, Mantra Band, Battle Boots, Black Belt
Accuracy+             Power Wrist, Lapis Lazuli
Long Reach            Protect Ring
MP Attack             Red Hat, Battle Boots, Power Belt
Bird Killer           Adaman Vest, Yellow Scarf
Bug Killer            Mythril Armlet
Stone Killer          Adaman Vest, Power Vest
Undead Killer         Headgear, N-Kai Armlet
Devil Killer          Chain Plate, Demon’s Vest
Beast Killer          Flash Hat, Egoist’s Armlet, Leather Wrist, Black Belt,
                      Moonstone
Man Eater             Bandana, Coronet
Healer                Garnet
Add Status            Twist Headband, Bone Wrist, Bracer, Chimera Armlet,
                      Glass Buckle
Gamble Defense        Adaman Hat, Twist Headband, Power Vest
Power Throw           Bracer
Power Up              Golden Skullcap
High Tide             Dark Hat, Gaia Gear, Jade Armlet, Sapphire
Counter               Cat’s Claws, Poison Knuckles, Mythril Claws,
                      Dragon’s Claws, Avenger, Kaiser Knuckles, Duel Claws,
                      Rune Claws, Ritual Hat, Power Vest, Power Belt
Cover                 Red Hat
Eye 4 Eye             Flash Hat, Ninja Gear
Body Temp             Jade Armlet, Diamond, Fairy Earrings, Madain’s Ring
Alert                 Ninja Gear, Germinas Boots
Level Up              Egoist’s Armlet, Fairy Earrings, Rosetta Ring
Ability Up            Green Beret, Brigandine, Lapis Lazuli, Ribbon
Flee-Gil              Wrist, Desert Boots, Gold Choker
Insomniac             Bandana, Gaia Gear, Coral Ring
Antibody              Mantra Band, Survival Vest, Dragon Wrist,
                      Glass Armlet, Glass Buckle
Bright Eyes           Ritual Hat
Restore HP            Brave Suit, Promist Ring
Jelly                 Circlet, Dark Hat, Bronze Vest, Dark Gear
Return Magic          Coronet, Brigandine
Auto-Potion           Demon’s Vest, Mythril Vest, Running Shoes
Locomotion            Golden Skullcap, Demon’s Vest, Ninja Gear,
                      Survival Vest
Clear Headed          Circlet, Green Beret, Dark Gear, Magician Shoes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


                        =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
                              SUMMON MAGIC
                        -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

As with the previous Final Fantasies, the 9th installment has summons too. 
But, not every character can summon. Only Garnet/Dagger and Eiko. Here is the 
complete list of the Eidolons in the game. You’ll see here the requirements 
in learning how to use them.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ARK                                               Elemental: Shadow

Description: Ark will come in from space and will transform into a robot. It 
will hurl beams at the opponent then finally unleashes a big beam of light to 
the enemy and boom!

Attack:       Eternal Darkness            Character:  Garnet
Learned From: Pumice                      AP needed:  100
MP Usage:     80 MP

Where to get: Synthesize 2 Pumice Pieces at HADES in Memoria. He’ll make the 
Pumice Stone out of it and Dagger can use that to summon Ark.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ATOMOS                                            Elemental: Shadow

Description: Amethyst will come out sucking everything including the enemies 
and except your party. It will do a Demi-like damage to all enemies. 

Attack:       G-Force 199                 Character:  Garnet
Learned From: Amethyst Gem                AP needed:  30
MP Usage:     32 MP

Where to get: Doctor Tot will give it to Garnet in the castle after Brahne’s 
tragedy. (I won’t spoil it)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BAHAMUT                                           Elemental: Non-elemental

Description: Bahamut will come down from the sky and blasts the enemies with 
a non-elemental Beam attack.

Attack:       Mega Flare                  Character:  Garnet
Learned From: Garnet Gem                  AP needed:  80
MP Usage:     56 MP

Where to get: Beatrix will give it to you after you return to Alexandria 
castle in Disc 3.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CARBUNCLE                                         Elemental: Non-elemental

Description: Carbuncle will come out of the grounds and flies upward. Then 
shoots a ruby light at your party casting Reflect on everyone.

Attack:       Ruby Light                  Character:  Eiko
Learned From: Ruby Gem                    AP needed:  35
MP Usage:     24 MP

Where to get: When Eiko removes the Eidolon at Iifa Tree.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
FENRIR                                            Elemental: Earth

Description: Fenrir’s head will appear. Then, Fenrir will punch the enemy 
from underground sending the enemy high up in the sky.

Attack:       Terestrial Rage             Character:  Eiko
Learned From: Sapphire Gem                AP needed:  55
MP Usage:     30

Where to get: Eiko has the Sapphire Gem when she joins your party.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
IFRIT                                             Elemental: Fire

Description: Ifrit will come out then, a massive fire blasts from the ground.

Attack:       Flame of Hell               Character:  Garnet
Learned From: Topaz Gem                   AP needed:  35
MP Usage:     26

Where to get: Doctor Tot will give it to Garnet in the castle after Brahne’s 
tragedy. (I won’t spoil it)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
LEVIATHAN                                         Elemental: Water

Description: Leviathan will appear then he will move away. Then, he’ll charge 
to the enemy while a big tidal wave follows behind.

Attack:       Tsunami                     Character:  Garnet
Learned From: Aquamarine Gem              AP needed:  40
MP Usage:     42

Where to get: Dagger will receive the Aquamarine at the Iifa Tree.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MADEEN                                            Elemental: Non-Elemental

Description: Madeen will come out and blasts the enemy with non-elemental 
attacks

Attack:       Terra Homing                Character:  Eiko
Learned From: Ribbon                      AP needed:  54
MP Usage:     120

Where to get: There are Ribbons at the Treno Auction House, Synthesize at 
Black Cat Synthesis Shop at Black Mage Village.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ODIN                                              Elemental: Non-Elemental

Description: Odin will come in and unleash a devastating slash of his Steel 
Bladed Sword! (ZanTetsuKen)

Attack:       Zantetsuken                 Character:  Garnet
Learned From: DarkMatter                  AP needed:  40
MP Usage:     28

Where to get: Win the DarkMatter item at the Treno Auction House.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
PHOENIX                                           Elemental: Fire

Description: The Phoenix will come out of the ground and flies over to the 
enemies and burns it with the flame. He’ll revive all KO’d party member while 
doing this.

Attack:       Rebirth Flame               Character:  Eiko
Learned From: Phoenix Pinion              AP needed:  40
MP Usage:     32

Where to get: Phoenix Pinions are scattered around the world. I’ll include 
the exact location after writing the walkthrough.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
RAMUH                                             Elemental: Thunder

Description: Ramuh will come down and hurl his staff to the ground creating a 
mass density of thunderbolts damaging ALL enemies on screen. 

Attack:       Judgement Bolt              Character:  Garnet
Learned From: Peridot Gem                 AP needed:  30
MP Usage:     22 MP

Where to get: You’ll get the Peridot Gem if you found all 5 instances of 
Ramuh at Pinnacle Rock. You’ll also get Peridot Gems from the bird like 
monster near Black Mage Village (it looks like a Griffin, lion with head of a 
bird with wings). 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SHIVA                                             Elemental: Ice

Description: Shiva will come out of the ground and hurled Icicles at the 
enemy. Then, huge icicles will appear beneath the enemies.

Attack:       Diamond Dust                Character:  Garnet
Learned From: Opal Gem                    AP needed:  20
MP Usage:     24

Where to get: Doctor Tot will give it to Garnet in the castle after Brahne’s 
tragedy. (I won’t spoil it)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

How to increase the Summon’s Damage:
------------------------------------
You can do 2 things in order for your summon to do more damage to the 
enemies. First, let Dagger and Eiko equip the Boost Ability. This will not 
only show the entire summon sequence, it also increases the damage. Second, 
the Summon’s power increases when you have lost of its gem in your inventory. 
Example, if you have 99 Peridots, Ramuh will do much more damage to the enemy 
than having 50 Peridots.

Summoning Secrets:
------------------

/////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
This entire section is borrowed from Yee Seng Fu’s excellent Side 
Quests/Secrets FAQ. Other contributors are also credited.
/////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

====
ODIN
====

The Odin summon has a certain percentage chance to cause an instant
death to enemies. However, if Odin fails to cause an instant death
to the enemies, no damage will be inflicted on them. To prevent this
from happening, you have to equip the Odin Sword ability. In case,
Odin fails to cause instant death, this will cause wind damage to all
enemies. My advice is equip ONLY the Odin Sword ability if you are
sure that you are going to let Dagger to use an Odin summon. If not,
don't bother to equip Odin Sword ability. Use other summons instead.
The formula to calculate this percentage chance is:

Percentage Chance = [Dagger's Magic Power/4 + difference between
                     Dagger's level and monsters' level]%.

Credit to PlayOnline.com for the info/computation above.

======
ATOMOS
======

The Atomos summon works like a demi, damaging a certain percentage
of the enemies' HP. How much attack percentage it causes, will be
determined by two factors:
a)Full animation or Partial animation.
b)No of Amethyst you have in your inventory.

The formula to calculate the amount of HP it can caused is by:
a)[Full Animation]    = [30 + No of Amethyst]% of enemy's HP.
b)[Partial Animation] = 2/3 of [Full Animation].

Credit goes to PlayOnline for the info above.

=======
PHOENIX
=======

Phoenix summon has the ability to cause Fire damage to all enemies
as well as reviving all K.O characters. But, do you know that there's
a chance that Phoenix Summon will appear and revive the party if
everyone gets K.O? This percentage chance is determined by the number
of Phoenix Pinion in your inventory. The formula for this percentage
chance to occur is given by:

Percentage Chance = [No of Phoenix Pinion/256] x 100%.

Since maximum no of Phoenix Pinion you can keep in your inventory
is 99, the maximum % chance that Phoenix summon can appear using
the above formula is:

Percentage Chance = 99/256 x 100% = 38.671875% = 38.7%. (3 sig fig)

Credit goes to PlayOnline for the info above.


                        =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
                               BLUE MAGIC
                        -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

The Blue Magic can be used by Quina alone. You can acquire these Blue Magic 
by using the EAT ability of Quina. To EAT effectively, only try to EAT the 
enemy if its HP is really low (critical). If successful, Quina will learn a 
blue Magic. If Quina however, EAT the same monster/enemy again, Quina will 
say “It tastes bad”. Here’s the complete list of Quina’s Blue Magic.

To learn Blue Magic easily, use Quina to eat a Zaghnol at the Outer 
Continent. Quina will learn the Matra Magic right? Now, if you use it on the 
enemy, it will reduce its HP for which Quina may already eat the enemy. 

A good way to gain blue magic with Quina is to equip all members in the 
party with the insomniac ability. When you cast Night the only one sleeping 
is your enemy. Use Matra Magic. Then Eat them. It works on most weak enemies 
that you would have a hard time eating. (by SplendidGenesis@aol.com)

For the locations, you can refer to the Map section below.

*- listed in alphabetical order
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
1,000 NEEDLES        

Description:   Does a fixed damage of 1,000
Area affected: Single Enemy
MP Usage:      8
Learned from:  Cactuar (Donna Plains)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ANGEL’S SNACK        

Description:   Uses Remedy on all party members (this actually uses 4
               Remedies from your inventory)
Area affected: Entire Party 
MP Usage:      4
Learned from:  Ironite (Suburb-Burmecia), Mistodon (Quelmiera Shores), 
               Epitaph (Oeilvert), Behemoth (Memoria)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
AQUA BREATH

Description:   Water Attack
Area affected: Single Enemy
MP Usage:      14
Learned from:  Clipper (Qu’s Marsh), Axolotl (Qu’s Marsh-Burmecia), Sahagin 
(Qu’s Marsh-Outer Continent), Vepal (Quelmiera Shores)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
AUTO LIFE        

Description:   Casts life when the party member is KO’d
Area affected: Single Ally
MP Usage:      14
Learned from:  Carrion Worm (Cleyra’s Trunk), Gimme Cat (?), Cerberus 
               (Ipsen’s Castle), Yan (Vile Island), Stilva (Memoria)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BAD BREATH        

Description:   Causes various status effects like Mini, Berserk, Confuse,
               Slow, and Darkness
Area affected: Single Enemy
MP Usage:      16
Learned from:  Anemone (Qu’s Marsh), Worm Hydra (Norlich Heights-Dali), 
Malboro (forests around the world)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOOM        

Description:   Starts a countdown from 10. When it reaches 0, the affected
               enemy will be KO’d.
Area affected: Single Enemy
MP Usage:      12
Learned from:  Veteran (Memoria), Ash (Memoria)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
EARTH SHAKE        

Description:   Earth Attack
Area affected: All Enemies
MP Usage:      20
Learned from:  Adamantoise (Uaho Island-Chocobo’s Paradise), Earth Guard 
               (Earth Shrine), Shell Dragon (Pandemonium)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
FROG DROP       

Description:   Damage depends on the number of frogs captured in Qu Marshes 
Area affected: All Enemies
MP Usage:      10
Learned from:  Gigan Toad (Qu’s Marsh-Burmecia)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
FROST   

Description:   Freezes the enemy
Area affected: Single Enemy
MP Usage:      8
Learned from:  Wraith (Mt. Gulug), Chimera (Memoria), Kraken (Memoria)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GOBLIN PUNCH

Description:   Causes Non-Elemental Attacks
Area affected: Single Enemy
MP Usage:      4
Learned from:  Goblin (Evil Forest), Goblin Mage (Lucid Plains-Madain Sari)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
LIMIT GLOVE        

Description:   The lower the HP of Quina, the higher the damage
Area affected: Single Enemy
MP Usage:      10
Learned from:  Mu (Norlich Heights-Dali), Axe Beak (Lindblum Plateau), 
               Mandragora (Treno Forest), Blazer Beetle (Lucid Plains-Madain 
               Sari), Jabberwock (Daines-Horse Basin), Catoblepas (Seaways 
               Canyon)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
LV3 DEF-LESS

Description:   Lowers the defense of enemies with levels divisible by 3
Area affected: All Enemies
MP Usage:      12
Learned from:  Carve Spider (Bentini Heights), Lamia (Gizamaluke’s Grotto),
               Lizard Man (Daines-Horse Basin), Sand Scorpion (Pinnacle   
               Rocks), Ochu (Conde Petie Mt. Path), Grand Dragon 
               (Sacrobless Island)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
LV4 HOLY    

Description:   Causes Holy damage to enemies with levels divisible by 4
Area affected: All Enemies
MP Usage:      22
Learned from:  Feather Circle (Fossil Roo), Torama (Desert Palace),
               Amdusias (Pandemonium)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
LV5 DEATH   

Description:   Causes death to enemies with levels divisible by 5
Area affected: All Enemies
MP Usage:      20
Learned from:  Stroper (Iifa Tree), Dracozombie (Lucid Plains-Madain Sari), 
               Whale Zombie (Ryuki Shores-Outer Continent), Lich (Memoria)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MAGIC HAMMER

Description:   Absorbs a random amount of MP from an enemy
Area affected: Single Enemy
MP Usage:      2
Learned from:  Magic Vice (Suburb-Burmecia), Ring Leader (Terra)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MATRA MAGIC

Description:   Reduced enemy’s HP to 1
Area affected: Single Enemy
MP Usage:      8
Learned from:  Trick Sparrow (Bentini Heights-Treno), Dragonfly (Gargan Roo), 
               Zaghnol (Outer Continent), Ogre (Desert Palace), Land Worm 
               (Kiera Desert), Armstrong (Seaways Canyon)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MIGHTY GUARD        

Description:   Casts Protect and Shell to all party members
Area affected: Entire Party
MP Usage:      64
Learned from:  Serpion (Eunorus Plains), Myconid (Iifa Tree), Gigan Octopus 
               (Ryuki Shores-Outer Continent), Antlion (Desert Palace), 
               Gargoyle (Ipsen’s Castle)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MUSTARD BOMB        

Description:   Causes Heat to the enemy
Area affected: Single Enemy
MP Usage:      10
Learned from:  Red Vepal (Mt. Gulus), Grenade (Mt. Gulug), Wraith 
               (Mt. Gulug), Maliris (Memoria)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
NIGHT       

Description:   Induces Sleep on everyone (party and enemies)
Area affected: Everyone
MP Usage:      14
Learned from:  Nymph (Eesistern Coast), Abomination (Fossil Roo), Seeker Bat 
               (Pinnacle Rocks), Grimlock (Desert Palace)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
PUMPKIN HEAD

Description:   Damage will be the difference with the Maximum HP and the 
               current HP of Quina.
Area affected: Single Enemy
MP Usage:      12
Learned from:  Python (Norlich Heights-Dali), Hedgehog Pie (Eunorus Plains), 
               Lady Bug (Eunorus Plains), Skeleton (Gizamaluke’s Grotto), 
               , Basilisk (Suburb-Burmecia), Bandersnatch (Alexandria 
               Castle)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ROULETTE        

Description:   Randomly picks from anyone (party or enemies) and causes 
               instant death.
Area affected: Everyone
MP Usage:      18
Learned from:  Ghost (Dali Underground), Zombie (Gizamaluke’s Grotto), 
               Hecteyes (any forest in the world map)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
TWISTER        

Description:   Wind Attack
Area affected: All Enemies
MP Usage:      22
Learned from:  Red Dragon (Mt. Gulug), Abadon (Pandemonium), Tiamat (Memoria)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
VANISH        

Description:   Makes one party member invisible and impervious to physical
               attacks. Use Magic to cancel it.
Area affected: Single Ally
MP Usage:      8
Learned from:  Drakan (Desert Palace), Gnoll (Conde Petie Mountain Path), 
Goblin Mage (Lucid Plains)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
WHITE WIND        

Description:   Restores some HP of the party
Area affected: Entire Party
MP Usage:      14
Learned from:  Zuu (Cleyra’s Trunk), Griffin (Kognish Shores), Zemzelett 
(Black Mage Village-entrance), Garuda (Esto Gaza)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The list of the Blue Magic was sent by Luis Alberto Cardenas and the Monsters 
where they can be learned from were sent by Kyle Miller. All other 
information (including the locations of the monsters) is from yours truly.


                         =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
                                  ITEMS
                         -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

These items heal your characters during and after battle. Items are 
consumable and cannot be used anymore if you don’t have any stock. Most of 
them can be bought from Shops and spoils from battles. Some are given to you 
by other people. Just always be sure that you have enough of the basic items 
such as Potions, Hi-Potions, Phoenix Downs and Ethers. 

Name          Description                                     Buy/Sell
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Annoyntment   Cures Trouble Status                            150/  75
Antidote      Cures Poison or Venom Status                     50/  25
Dead Pepper   Increases the ability of your Chocobo for a       -/   -
              Short Period of time
Echo Screen   Cures Silence Status                             50/  25
Elixir        Fully restores HP and MP                          -/   -
Ether         Restore 100 MPs                                   -/   -
Eye Drops     Cures Darkness Status                            50/  25
Gysahl Greens Calls Chocobo at Tracks. Cures Berserk status    80/  40
Hi Potion     In battle: +450 HP, Out: +300 HP                200/ 100
Magic Tag     Cures Zombie condition                          100/  50
Phoenix Down  Revives a KO’d party member                     150/  75
Potion        In battle: +150 HP, Out: +100 HP                 50/  25
Remedy        Cure Various Status Effects                     300/ 150
Soft          Cure Petrify or Gradual Petrify status          100/ 100
Tent          Enables you to rest with Moogles. Full HP and   800/ 400
              100 MP are restored.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


                         =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
                                KEY ITEMS
                         -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

These Key Items are items that play an important and independent role in the 
game. Some of them affect the story directly or just a particular character. 

For the Stellazzio’s Descriptions, I’ll be putting up the Stellazzio story in 
the Stellazio section. in part 1 of the guide.

* in alphabetical order
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
AUTOGRAPH                    

Where to get: Get from Lowell at Lindblum when you go there for the first 
time. After leaving the theater as a moogle, follow him to the Painter’s 
house and talk to him.

Description: 
Lowell Bridges
--------------
Born in Treno, raises in Lindblum. Famous for his masculine charm. Starred in 
“Moogle wannabe 2”.

Use: Nothing, as of now.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BEAUTIFUL POTION

Where to get: Get it from the Woman who owns the Item shop in Lindblum.

Description: 
“Color of water. Une’s Mirror... flower of light. Holy Thunder. Cast the 
spell in the full moon.”    =Book of Matoya=

Use: Known to be able to reverse physical change spells.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BLANK’S MEDICINE             

Where to get: Receive from Blank before leaving the Theater Ship to search 
for Garnet.

Description: 
“Your medicine’s always amazing! I only wish your Love Potion were as good.”   
=Marcus=

Use: Remove seeds that are planted in the body by the plants in the Evil 
Forest.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BLUE STONE                  

Where to get: Found at Conde Petie Mountain Path

Description: 
“Blue water flows with time. It streams and sings as it travels intae the 
ocean.”    =David Heavenguard=

Use: 1 of 4 stones needed to get Moonstone at Conde Petie Mountain Path

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BURMAN COFFEE

Where to get: Dali Sub-quest in Disc 3

Description:
"Each cup makes you forget the hustle and bustle of daily life. Come get
the experience of a lifetime!"    =Auctioneer=

Use: Mr. Morrid’s coffee.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CONTINENTAL MAP              

Where to get: Blank will give it to Zidane before he petrifies at the Evil 
forest.

Description: 
“the road remains wide open while your dreams are alive. Only fear can block 
the way.”   =Iron-Tail Fratley=

Use: Shows you the map of the entire Mist Continent.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DESERT STAR                 

Where to get: The Jewel that protects Cleyra by maintaining the Whirlwind 
around it.

Description: 
One of the 4 Jewels. “Holy Wind that guides the sand, leads lost souls to 
heaven.”  =Claire’s Prayer=

Use: Maintains the whirlwind when played with the Harp at Cleyra.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOGA’S ARTIFACT

Where to get: You can win it at Treno Auction House.

Description: 
“We seek magic as a way of life. We create dreams after life.”  =Words on the 
Artifact=

Use: Enables you to get the Excalibur. Also, the soundtrack at Black Mage 
Inn.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
EARTH MIRROR               

Where to get: Ipsen’s Castle

Description: 
>’Mirrors’ is the only way I can
>describe these items. They
>each have their own elemental
>attributes. There is writing in
>the back. What does it mean?
=Terra’s Chronicles=

Use: Remove the seal at Shimmering Island.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
FALCON CLAW           

Where to get: Regent Cid of Lindblum has it and will be given to your party.

Description: 
One of the 4 Jewels. “According to the high priest, the power of the holy 
jewel surpasses that of the dragons.”  =Shaman Artania=

Use: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
FIRE MIRROR    

Where to get: Ipsen’s Castle

Description: 
>I learned that they hold
>terrifying powers. How
>were their powers used?
>Perhaps it was used to seal
>some other great power...
=Terra’s Chronicles=

Use: Remove the seal at Shimmering Island.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GATE PASS             

Where to get: Given to Steiner automatically at South Gate.

Description: 
“Holder of this pass is hereby permitted entry to any territory in the 
regency of lindblum.”   =Cid Fabool=

Use: Allows you to pass through the South Gate.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GIZAMALUKE’S BELL           

Where to get: You can get it from different people at Gizamaluke’s Grotto and 
Burmecia.

Description: 
“Cherish this moment, for happiness is elusive.”  =Warning on the bell=

Use: Open’s up doors with bells.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GREEN STONE                 

Where to get: Found at Conde Petie Mountain Path

Description: 
“The tree nurtures all. It protects and gives birth the land. Let us pray tae 
it everyday.”    =David Heavenguard=

Use: 1 of 4 stones needed to get Moonstone at Conde Petie Mountain Path

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GRIFFIN’S HEART

Where to get: You can win it at Treno Auction House.

Description: 
“Hear its soul, for it knows no terror.”  =Beatrix=

Use: Enables you to get the Excalibur.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GULUG STONE

Where to get: Found at Oeilvert

Description: 
>It was hidden in a land where
>magic cannot be used.
>it must be a magic controlling
>device, but the technology
>is completely out of this world.
=Terra’s Chronicles=

Use: Kuja’s errand for you, for the safety of your other party members.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
HOLY BELL                   

Where to get: Given to you by Moguta inside Gizamaluke’s Grotto

Description: 
“The angel is ready to fly. Follow your heart and fly away.”  =Message on the 
bell=

Use: opens up the doors to Gizamaluke’s Chamber.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
KIRMAN COFFEE              

Where to get: Found at the left area of Eiko’s Kitchen.

Description: 
“Roasting coffee beans slowly enhances their rich flavor and aroma. Did you 
know that?”    =Morrid of Dali Village=

Use: Something to do with Morrid.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
KUPO NUT                 

Where to get: You receive a free one from Vivi’s ATE at Lindblum and also 
from Atla (moogle) at Burmecia after delivering him his letter.

Description: 
“Kupo, KupKup, Kupopo...po ... Kupo!? Kupopo!!! <chomp chomp> Kupooo.”
=Moguta=

Use: Frees Moguta from the large bell in Gizamaluke’s Grotto.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MAGICAL FINGERTIP  

Where to get: Win it at Treno Auction House (check Excalibur section in Treno 
Sub-Quest for more info).

Description: 
“No one knows who this Gogo guy is. He just disappeared. Does he really exist 
or what?”   =Lady Bandit Ruby=

Use: Given to a man in Daguerreo in exchange for Steiner’s Excalibur sword.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MASTER HUNTER  

Where to get: You’ll receive it after the Lindblum’s Festival of the Hunt.

Description: 
“I shall follow as the footsteps of Cid I, the explorer King. The true hunter 
must seek his targets in the sky.”  =Previous Master=

Use: Proof that you are the winner at the Festival.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MAYOR’S KEY            

Where to get: Mayor’s Room in Dali (Side Quest during Card Tournament)

Description: 
“Meow! I know where the mayor keeps his treasures! They’re very nice, meow!”  
=Village Cat=

Use: Open the locked room in the windmill

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MINI-BRAHNE

Where to get: It is found in Dali, in the Mayor's Room.

Description: 
“Th-This is the fabled trio figurine made by Gogo godfingers! But why did he 
make a figure of Brah-“   =Shy Guy Laudo=

Use: none as of now.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MINI-BURMECIA               

Where to get: Found in a bed inside the Tantalus’ Hideout in Lindblum.

Description: 
“It’s the most coveted piece of the famous triptych! You’ll never see a rarer 
item!”   =Auctioneer=

Use: none, as of now.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MINI-CID 

Where to get: You can win it at Treno Auction House.

Description: 
“May this flesh turn into clay, may his blood turn into water. God of Chaos, 
trap this soul forever in this form.”   =Runes on a figurine=

Use: none, as of now.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MOCCHA COFFEE

Where to get: You can get it from the North Gate.

Description: 
“Sipping coffee at sunrise is the best thing life has to offer, y’all!”  
=Cinna, Closet Lover De Caffe=

Use: Something to do with Morrid.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MOOGLE SUIT                  

Where to get: Get from Lowell at Lindblum when you go there for the first 
time. After leaving the theater as a moogle, follow him to the Painter’s 
house and search inside the house for the suit.

Description: 
“Oh, it’s so well made. The fabric is nice, too. Little Llia would love it. 
Eh? I can’t have it?”  =Llia’s Gramdma=

Use: none, as of now.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MOOGLES FLUTE       

Where to get: The moogle in the Evil Forest will give it to you right before 
you enter the World Map for the first time.

Description: 
“Hey, let me touch that red... bonbon lookin’ thing on ‘ur head...zzz...” 
=Baku Sleeptalking=

Use: Call on a moogle at the World Map to be able to use a Tent and Save the 
game.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
PROTECTION BELL     

Where to get: Burmecia (Residence Room)

Description: 
“We seek the meaning of life because we are mortal.”  =Philisopher Minu=

Use: Open door to Burmecia Castle.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
RANK S MEDAL

Where to get: Achieve a Class S rating from the 4-armed man at Daguerreo

Description:
"The owner of this medal is certified as a Rank S Treasure Hunter by the 
treasure hunter guild."   =T.H. Guild=

Use: Just a proof that you are a Rank S Treasure Hunter.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
RAT TAIL 

Where to get: You can win it at Treno Auction House.

Description: 
“I almost ate this thing when I first found it. I thought it was a snack. 
Gwahahaha!”  =Baku of Tantalus=

Use: Enables you to get the Excalibur

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
RED STONE                   

Where to get: Found at Conde Petie Mountain Path

Description: 
“Fire was a gift from the heavens. It must never be used fer evil.” 
=David Heavenguard=

Use: 1 of 4 stones needed to get Moonstone at Conde Petie Mountain Path

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SILVER PENDANT            

Where to get: It is Dagger’s Pendant. You’ll automatically get it.

Description: 
The national treasure of Alexandria. This pendant has a jewel in its center.

Use: Just a momento pendant of Garnet.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
STRANGE POTION  

Where to get: Get it from the pipe in the left portion of the Painter’s 
House.

Description: 
“Root of mountain, source of sea... Sahagin’s blood. Head of a revived beast. 
Call a dragon. Chant a spell.”    =Book of Matoya=

Use: Known to be able to reverse physical change spells.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
STRATEGY GUIDE

Where to get: You’ll receive it after beating Ozma.

Description: 
“You must collect cards with triangles pointing in different directions, or 
you can’t achieve the highest rank.”  =Grand Master I=

Use: Tell you how to achieve the highest Card Collector Level. Proof that you 
beat the hardest boss in the game and that you’re invincible!

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SUPERSOFT   

Where to get: You’ll get it from Doctor Tot in Treno.

Description: 
“Remember that candy guy who gave us this item? Or was he a horn? I forget. 
Gwahahaha!”  =Baku of Tantalus=

Use: Used to cure Blank of his petrification at Evil Forest.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
TICKET

Where to get: You’ll automatically receive it in the beginning of the game

Description: 
Come see the all-time classic love story “I want to be your crow.” A tragic 
tale of destiny, cursed memories, dreams, life, and more.

Use: A fake ticket, which Vivi tried to use at the Ticket Booth in 
Alexandria.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
UNE’S MIRROR

Where to get: You can win it at Treno Auction House.

Description: 
“The body may perish, but the spirit lives on.”  =Words on the Artifact=

Use: Enables you to get the Excalibur.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
UNUSUAL POTION   

Where to get: Get it from Cinna at the Tantalus’ Hideout.

Description: 
“Sigh of whisper grass, light of dark... Antidote... Cast a spell in the 
northwest wind.”    =Book of Matoya=

Use: Known to be able to reverse physical change spells.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
WATER MIRROR               

Where to get: Ipsen’s Castle

Description: 
>I’ve linked these items with the
>artifacts, bit I am not entirely
>sure about it. The only conclusion
>I’ve reached so far is that
>they are not of this world.
=Terra’s Chronicles=

Use: Remove the seal at Shimmering Island.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
WIND MIRROR            

Where to get: Ipsen’s Castle

Description: 
>The mirrors were lost,
>ending my research. All facts
>about their origins have
>vanished. All I’ve learned
>is that I know very little.
=Terra’s Chronicles=

Use: Remove the seal at Shimmering Island.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
WORLD MAP

Where to get: You can get it from Regent Cid before heading for the Outer 
Continent.

Description: 
“Let fear propel you forward. Do not let failure stifle you.”
=Iron-Tail Fratley=

Use: Shows you the map of the entire world.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
YELLOW STONE                

Where to get: Found at Conde Petie Mountain Path

Description: 
“Yellow Earth is sometimes harsh, sometime gentle. Travel the Earth tae see 
its heart.”    =David Heavenguard=

Use: 1 of 4 stones needed to get Moonstone at Conde Petie Mountain Path

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


                        =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
                                  MAPS
                        -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

I’ll be including ALL locations in the world map for your convenience. :) 
I’ll include also the unique names of each (i.e. Gunitas Basin, SacroBless 
Island, etc.)

------------
I. WORLD MAP
------------
This map will contain the important locations in the world map as seen in the 
game. This is for your quick reference. :) Please bear with my ASCII Art.
    
                    __                           _____
    8           ___/  \                          \__1 \                N
               /       \                   __       \_|                |
         __   /   q  __/                  |__/          __   ___     W-o-E
        /  \_/    __/                    ____    _     /  \_/   |      |
       |         /                    __/  z \__/ \   /         /      S
     _/ o       |   Lost             /   j         \_/      m   \
    /  ____     |   Continent       | u j      i    5        |\  \
   /  /    \___/                 /\  \___// __  r c __/\   n | \ |
  |__/    ||                  __/  |     /_/  \____/    \   /  |e|
             7               /   ___\                    \_|   |/
              _             |   /         Outer Continent
           _ //              \_/
           \_/ 
      __    _  __                                      /\____
  ___/  \__// /  \                                   _/      \___
 /_  v     |_/  _|                                  /            \e
   / _          \          e             _____     /             b\_
   || \     5    \                  ____/     \   |           a     \
   || |Forgotten /e             ___/  d       |__/          p       /
   | B|Continent \             /           2                        |
       \          \            \_ h                      t          \
   ||  |          |              \     s         l                   \
    \\  \  3       \             /          Mist     t               /
     ||  \         /            /      s  Continent                 /
     ||   |       |             \__ 5                9   A  _    6  |
           \_____C \__             \                9      | \     /
        -        \    \            |            f          |  \   /
       |5|        |  /             |        _             /    | /
        -         \  |          ___|  x    | \_____/\____/    /_/
       \e\         \_/         /           |
         |\__                   \ y w  4  _|
         | k \                  _\      __\
          \__|                  \______/
                \\
                  |\_
                   \g\ 
                    -
Legend:
Place                            #/Char      Continent
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alexandria                         a         Mist
Alexandria Harbor                  b         Mist
Black Mage Village                 c         Outer
Burmecia                           d         Mist
Chocobo’s Air Garden (5x)          e         Varies
Chocobo’s Forest                   f         Mist
Chocobo’s Lagoon                   g         Forgotten
Chocobo’s Paradise                 8         Lost (near)
Cleyra                             h         Mist
Conde Petie                        i         Outer
Conde Petie Mountain Path (2x)     j         Outer
Daguerreo                          k         Forgotten
Dali Village                       l         Mist
Desert Palace                      m         Outer
Earth Shrine                       n         Outer
Esto Gaza                          o         Lost
Evil Forest                        p         Mist
Fire Shrine                        q         Lost
Fossil Roo                         r         Outer
Gizamaluke’s Grotto (2x)           s         Mist
Ice Cavern (2x)                    t         Mist
Iifa Tree                          u         Outer
Ipsen’s Castle                     v         Forgotten
Lindblum                           w         Mist
Lindblum Dragon’s Gate             x         Mist
Lindblum Harbor                    y         Mist
Madain Sari                        z         Outer
Mognet Central                     1         Outer
North Gate                         2         Mist
Oeilvert                           3         Forgotten
Pinnacle Rocks                     4         Mist
Qu’s Marsh (4x)                    5         All
Quan’s Dwelling                    6         Mist
Shimmering Island                  7         Lost
South Gate                         9         Mist
Treno                              A         Mist
Water Shrine                       B         Forgotten
Wind Shrine                        C         Forgotten
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

----------------------
II. THE MIST CONTINENT
----------------------
                                        ____
  N                                    / K  \               
  |               ____   _____         \___  \___            
W-o-E         ___/M   \_/\   /          |  \___E \___          
  |      ____/   \ melda  |U \          |      \_  B \             
  S ____/      C  |plains |   \____   3/\  A     \___ \             
  _/   / daines-   \    ___\_/     \__/  |__   alex. |_\___        
 /L  6 | horse     |___/            |       \___plateau\  K\        
 \_  _/  plains   /_  W             |   N       \_      \_  |   
   \/            |O |    H         P \            \__     \ \    
  _/    G        |  |   gunitas P     |   zamo       \     \ \_   
 /__             |Y |   Basin         |   basin       \     \_ \  
    \       ____/_  /                /                 |______|_|
    | _____|____ D\_|_              |                  /      | |
    |/      O   \___  \      _____2/             _____/        \\
    |               \__\__  /      \___  _______/          1   | \
    |    Z                \| F  king ed\/                      |  |
   5|                      |     plains \    4    bentini hts. |  |
  _/  eunorus plains    __/  T___       _|__           ___     |  /
 /        R            /  \__/   \     /    \___      /   \    / /
/__                   |           \___/         \   J/     \\_/I/
   \                 V|                          \__/       \  /
   |                 _\                                      |/
   /   S  Q         |     
  |___       X      _\
      \____________/
  
Legend:
Place                            #/Char
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alexandria                          A
Alexandria Harbor                   B
Burmecia                            C
Byan Heights                        D
Chocobo’s Air Garden                E
Chocobo’s Forest                    F
Cleyra                              G
Dali                                H
Deadly Cape                         I
Derek Beach                         J
Edgecry Coast                       K
Eesistern Coast                     L
Eleanor Coast                       M
Evil Forest                         N
Gizamaluke’s Grotto 2x              O
Ice Cavern 2x                       P
Lindblum                            Q
Lindblum Dragon’s Gate              R
Lindblum Harbor                     S
Metalark Shores                     T
Nolrich Heights                     U
Nomarinia Beach                     V
North Gate                          W
Pinnacle Rocks                      X
Popos Heights                       Y
Qu’s Marsh                          Z
Quan’s Dwelling                     1
South Gate                          2
Togull Beach                        3
Treno                               4
Tuhanda Shores                      5
Vube Desert                         6
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

------------------------
III. THE OUTER CONTINENT
------------------------
                                 _______
    N                            \____CP\___
    |                                 \  12 /
  W-o-E                     ___        \____\
    |                  ____/   |_            ___             _____
    S                 /    11    \          |   \__      ___/     /
                      \   Lucid  |         /       \____/  __     |
                      |   Plains /        /            /__/  |     \     
                  ____/\3  _____/        |         E      4 /     _/
           ______/    3 \_/___          /\      I     R     \     \
       ___/       |Dyshnose\  \________/13\_ K    / \_   A   |     \
    __/ Pualei    | Plains  |           |   \     |   \_____/      |
   /    Plains    \         \           |    \_  D| E  S  E\ R  T  |
  |       10      /          |          \      \__|         \      \
  |__             |          |  Donna    \/\_                |\     |
     \___        /           | Plains   _/   \______      5  | \    |
         /  ____/ Moteore   2/    /\   / \          |        |  \   |
        /__/    \Peninsula  |   _/  \_/ 8/           \       \   \ 6|
  __/\           \___      /  _/ 1       \            |  16/15\   \ |
 /14_/               \____/__/7  MF    9_/            \____/\__\   ||
|__/                         \________/                            ||

Legend:
Place                            #/Char 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Black Mage Village                  1
Cazedil Plains                     CP
Chocobo’s Air Garden               15
Conde Petie                         2
Conde Petie Mountain Path           3
Desert Palace                       4
Earth Shrine                        5
Falstead Coast                      6
Fossil Roo                          7
Golgrich Shores                     8
Kognish Shores                      9
Kuentis Peninsula                  16
Iifa Tree                          10
Madain Sari                        11
Magdalene Forest                   MF
Mognet Central                     12
Qu’s Marsh                         13
Vile Island                        14
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

----------------------
IV. THE LOST CONTINENT
----------------------

   N                           ____
   |             __________    \   \_________
 W-o-E          /          \___/        | 1 _|
   |            \__ __Seatence Ice Field|__/
   S               \  \______3 _   ____/
               ____/Mitmakis \| |_/
             _/  \ Ice Field  \__
            /Gulug|____       ___|5
         __/  Mts /    \__4__/
        / ___2___/       _
       |_/              |_/6 __
                             \_\
Legend:
Place                            #/Char 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Canaramist Cape                    1
Esto Gaza                          2
Fire Shrine                        3
Quelmiera Shores                   4
Ryuki Shores                       5
Shimmering Islands                 6
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

--------------------------
V. THE FORGOTTEN CONTINENT
--------------------------

                               __
               ____           / _\         N
         _____/    \       |\/ |           |
      __/5  /       \___   \9 /          W-o-E
     /D__  |Blairsurpass\   \/             |
    | /  |/   Plains  0_|    ____          S
    ||    \           /_____/    |_
    ||    |__    ____/            _/
    |   B |  \__/                /
           \   Seaways Canyon   1\
    ||     |                  /|_|
           /                 |
    ||     \    7             \
    | \    |_   __            /
    \4|      |_/  |      ____/|__
     \|          /______/        |
     ||         |              _/
     | \         \  Gusty     /___
      \|          |  Valley    __/ 
         _        |      C    /
        /6/_       \__       /
         |0_|        \     /
         |/ __         \   |
           |_ \___      |_/
             |  3 \_
             | A __/  _
              \_/  _ |1|
                  |_//_|
                        /\__2
                        \8__\_
                            \_\
                 
Legend:
Place                            #/Char 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Chocobo’s Air Garden (x2)           1
Chocobo’s Lagoon                    2
Daguerreo                           3
Everlang Island                     4
Ipsen’s Castle                      5
Lanar Island                        6
Oeilvert                            7
Palmnell Island                     8
Pilkiras Island                     9
Qu’s Marsh (x2)                     0
Sacrobless Island                   A
Water Shrine                        B
Wind Shrine                         C
Yuanshao Peninsula                  D 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------


                       -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
                         ACTIVE TIME EVENTS (ATE)
                       =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

Here’s just a list of the ATEs in the game. They’re quite many but they’ll 
help and inform you about different events in the game. 

A.T.E.                  Location/Description
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Forest Keeper       Prima Vista/Crash Site: You’ll see Garnet and Vivi
                        In another part of the forest and they are in danger.

Time to Escape          Inside Prima Vista: You’ll see Steiner trying to 
                        Escape. He’s still weak and he can’t do so.

Girl who was left       Inside Prima Vista: You’ll see ruby at the bat in
behind                  Alexandria.

My Little Baby          Inside Prima Vista: You’ll see Cinna looking for the
                        Garnet doll. Gosh! He can’t sleep without it.
                        Poor baby. :)

Orchestra in the Forest Evil Forest: You’ll see the musicians of Tantalus
                        Singing Rufus’ Welcoming Parade song.

Do as I say, not as     Evil Forest: You’ll see Baku and Blank planning on
I do                    moving to Lindblum

Teach me, Mogster!      Evil Forest: You’ll see Mogster teach a moogle about
Lesson 1                the basics of the game.

Teach me, Mogster!      Ice Cavern: You’ll learn about Status Effects, 
Lesson 2                Elemental properties and Card Games from Mogster.

Vivi, confused          Dali: The village children will stay away from Vivi.

Dagger Tries            Dali: Dagger will worry about Brahne and what 
                        happened in Alexandria. See an old lady and oglop too

Dagger Tries Harder     Dali: Dagger tries to involve herself in     
                        conversations to familiarize herself in casual 
                        talking.

Cat’s Eye               Dali: You’ll see the Innkeeper mumbling about your 
                        Group.

Cat’s Eye 2             Dali: You’ll see the Innkeeper once again. He may
                        may have an idea as to the whereabouts of Vivi

Queen Brahne’s Steiner  Dali: You’ll see Steiner help at the item shop. He
                        wants to talk to adults but they are working. So, the
                        girl will tell Steiner everything.

Teach me, Mogster!      Lindblum: You’ll see Mogster teaching another moogle
(My first synthesis     about the Synthesis shops. He’ll also tip you that
lesson)                 there’s a legendary synthesist.

Small-town knight in a  Lindblum: You’ll see Steiner wandering around town
Big City

Vivi’s Shopping         Lindblum: You’ll see Vivi in the item shop. He’ll 
                        notice the Kupo Nut. The shopkeeper will give to him
                        for free as it is the last one. Also, about Hunt
                        Festival.

Steam Engine            Lindblum: you’ll see Steiner. He is lost. The old man
                        will tell Steiner more about Steam Engine.

What can I do?          Lindblum: You’ll see Dagger in the Guest Room. She 
                        wants to go out but is not permitted to do so.

Baku and His Crew       You’ll see Baku and co. They’ll talk about Blank and
                        How to save him. They also plan to go to Lindblum.

Treno Tradition         Treno: You’ll see Dagger in the outskirts of Treno.
                        She will be robbed of 1000 gil!

Pursuit                 Treno: Dagger gives chase to the man who stole
                        Her money

Confusion               Treno: Dagger will now concentrate on finding the 
                        Supersoft

Unexpected Visitor      Treno: You’ll see Dagger inside the Auction House

Ambition                Treno: You’ll see 2 kids who wish that one day, they
                        will become nobles too.

Crime and Punishment    You’ll see Cinna miss another ride to Lindblum 
                        because of the Bundt Cake. Baku will come in and
                        punishes Cinna.

Don’t Hate Me           Cleyra: You’ll see Vivi and Burmecians who hate him

I-I Haven’t Hurt Anyone Cleyra: You’ll see Vivi again being ganged upon by
                        the Burmecians.

No Yummy-yummies!       Cleyra: Quina will be disappointed about having no
                        food in Cleyra and will get mad at the Maidens.

There a Mushroom!       Cleyra: Quina will finally see a Mushroom and tries
                        to eat it.

Friendship              Alexandria: You’ll see Marcus do his best to save
                        Blank.

The Third Jewel         Lindblum: you’ll see Alexandrian soldiers in Lindblum

Brahne’s Fleet Arrives  Lindblum: You’ll see Brahne’s fleet arrive at 
                        Alexandria.

<gwok-gwok!> how        Lindblum: You’ll see Alexandrian soldiers make fun of
infuriating             Cid. Then, they’ll search for him. 

Hungry Bryan            Conde Petie: You’ll see Bryan ask for food and then
                        a shadowy image will appear to the left.

Vivi and the Couple     Conde Petie: Vivi will see a couple but they aren’t
                        afraid of Vivi

Quina Accused           Conde Petie: Quina learned that one must pay in order
                        to eat. Quina will then be accused of stealing.

Quina Can’t Communicate Conde Petie: Quina can communicate well with the
                        villagers.

Dagger and William      Conde Petie: You’ll just see Dagger at the Inn.

Life on the Run         Black Mage Village: Vivi will just run after the
                        Black Mages in the Village.

Different Language      Black Mage Village: Vivi and the black Mages will
                        talk about stopping or Death.

Visitor, Not Invader    Black Mage Village: Here, Dagger will try to convince
                        the Black Mages that they are here to correct what
                        is wrong. And they’re not here to ruin the peace.

Gourmand’s Nose         Black Mage Village: Quina will be at the 
                        Chocobo Stable. Quina thinks that the egg can be
                        eaten and the Black Mages try to protect the egg.

Everyday Life           Black Mage Village: The Shopkeeper is reading a book
                        on how to sell. The Black Mage will also forget what
                        Humans are and freaks out after remembering it.

Nuptial Joy             Conde Petie: You’ll see the Marriage of Vivi and
                        Quina!

Vivi’s Feelings         Madain Sari: This will show you Vivi, thinking about
                        dying and about the fear of it.

Dagger’s Feelings       Madain Sari: Dagger thinks about the Eidolon here
                        at Madain Sari. The place will be familiar to her.

Eiko’s Feelings         Madain Sari: You’ll see Eiko while cooking. She 
                        orders the Moogles to help her cook.

Eiko’s Kitchen          Madain Sari: Eiko will plan on how many people she
                        should serve. Eiko will also get Quina using the 
                        fishing pole

Eiko’s Kitchen 2        Madain Sari: Eiko and Quina will work together for 
                        a better meal. You’ll know that Quina is a very good
                        cook after all. Not just eating.

Long time no see!       Alexandria: See Zenero and Denero meet Genero!
                        Geez! They talk in a funny manner.

To Fly High             Alexandria: Marcus and Blank will just talk about
                        Zidane.

Artemicion              Alexandria: you’ll see a blue Moogle arrive at
                        Alexandria. He’ll meet with Stiltzkin and Kupo.

I Forgot!               Alexandria: Baku realizes that he lost the letter
                        of Eiko.

Clowns on a Dark Night  Alexandria: See Zorn and Thorn at Alexandria. Blank
                        and Marcus do their rounds while Zorn and Thorn hides

Eiko Talks Life         Treno: Eiko and Vivi talks about Zidane and Dagger
                        being insensitive about their feelings for each other

How He Ended Up Here    Treno: See Marco and Vivi talk about past times.
                        You can choose to let Vivi stay in Treno or visit
                        his house just outside Treno.

Memories by the Water   Treno: You’ll see Amarant near Stella’s house. The
                        villagers will scared of him.

City People             Treno: Nobles talk about their statues. Eiko then 
                        realizes that even rich people have problems.

Home Sweet Home         Treno: If you let Vivi go home, you’ll see his house
                        w/c is somewhere near Treno.

Hallucination           Treno: You’ll see Quina. She can’t believe that you
                        need gil in order to eat.

Good Old Days           Treno: You’ll see Amarant at the Auction House. Freya
                        will try to talk to him about his past.

Lesson in Life          Treno: You’ll see how Amarant and Zidane met for the
                        first time. Amarant was wanted in Treno because of 
                        Zidane. He also attacks on impulse and that added
                        to his bad image.

Something Washed Ashore Lindblum: You’ll see Lindblum Guard and Quina!

My Bad                  Lindblum: Blank forgot to tell Zidane to go to Cid.

Self-reproach           Lindblum: Dagger will thinking again about everybody.
                        If she stayed in Alexandria in the first place, these
                        Would have never happened.

Deep Anger              Lindblum: You’ll see Kuja aboard Hilda Garde #1. You
                        will also see the Black Mages and Zorn and Thorn.

My Hammer               Lindblum: The Tantalus will be rebuilding their HQ. 
                        Marcus also tried to borrow Cinna’s Hammer. Cinna 
                        won’t lend it to him.

The Rally               Lindblum: The Burmecian Survivors and Freya talks
                        about rebuilding Burmecia.

No Free Lunch           Lindblum: Quina will be trying the Gysahl Pickles for
                        the first time.

Team                    Lindblum: See Tantalus. Steiner will come in and ask
                        for Dagger. Tantalus will help with the search.

Recovery                Lindblum: Cid, in human form, will go to the research
                        center and prepare Hilda Garde 3 using parts from
                        the Blue Narciss.

Place to Call Home      Bran Bal: See Quina and Zidane talk about the people
                        here at Bran Bal

Where the Heart Is      Bran Bal: Vivi tries to talk to the people and 
                        realizes that they seem to be like the Black Mages.

Came into this World    Bran Bal: See Zidane and Amarant talk about their
                        pasts.

The Truth               Bran Bal: Zidane will be lead by the Girl to Garland.

The Elevator            Pandemonium: Here, you’ll see the rest of the party
                        at the elevator. You can now view it anytime until
                        you’re able to reach the maze.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------



                          =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
                             MOOGLE LOCATIONS
                          -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=--

Here’s the list of the moogles in the game. This contains their name and 
their location. This is mainly concerned about the Mognet. This will list 
will help you find a specific moogle. But, there are instances wherein you 
cannot reach one moogle because it is included in the story. Anyway, here’s 
the list.

Legend:
Services (S=Save, T=Tent, M=Mognet, Sh=Mogshop, P=Change Party members)

* Alphabetical Order
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Name      Location               Letters                     Services
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Atla      Burmecia               from Mogki, to Monev        S,T,M,Sh
                                 from Kupo, to Kumool
                                 to Mogryo
Chimomo   Madain Sari            none                        none
Grimo     South Gate Citadel     to Nazna                    S,T,M
Gumo      Village of Dali        from Mois                   S,T,M
Kumool    Ipsen’s Castle         from Mogki, from Atla       S,T,M,Sh
                                 to Mois, from Mogryo
Kumop     Dali Underground       to Mogki                    S,T,M
Kupo      Alexandria Castle      to Monty, to Atla           S,T,M
                                 from Noggy
Kuppo     Fossil Roo             to Kupo                     S,T,M,Sh
Mene      Chocobo’s Forest       none                        All about Choco
Mimoza    Oeilvert               to Mooel                    S,T,M,Sh
Mocha     Madain Sari            none                        none
Mocchi    Iifa Tree              from Mogryo, from Stiltzkin S,T,M
Moco      Madain Sari            none                        none
Mog       With Eiko              none                        Eidolon
Mogki     Lindblum Castle        From Kumop, to Atla,        S,T,M
                                 to Moodon
Mogmi     Gizamaluke’s Grotto    from Moodon                 S,T,M
Mogrich   Treno                  from Stiltzkin              S,T,M
Moguo     World Map              none                        S,T
Moguta    Gizamaluke’s Grotto    none                        none
Mogmatt   Conde Petie            to Suzuna                   S,T,M
Mogrika   Esto Gaza              from Artemicion, to Moolan  S,T,M
Mogryo    Black Mage Village     to Mocchi, to Kumool        S,T,M
Mogsam    Desert Palace          from Mojito                 S,T,M
Mogtaka   Mount Gulug            from Moolan                 S,T,M,Sh
Mois      Ice Cavern             to Gumo, to Noggy,          S,T,M
          Fossil Roo (Disc 4)    from Kumool
Mojito    Desert Palace          to Mogsam                   S,T,M,Sh
Momatose  Madain Sari            none                        Rest
Monev     Cleyra Trunk           from Atla                   S,T,M
Monty     Evil Forest            from Kupo, from Stiltzkin   S,T,M
          Pinnacle Rocks
Moodon    Lindblum Inn           Ruby to Zidane, from Mogki, S,T,M
                                 From Serino, Ruby to Zidane #2, to Moonte
Mooel     Oeilvert               from Mimoza                 S,T,M
Moolan    Mount Gulug            from Mogrika, to Mogtaka    S,T,M
Moonte    Dragon’s Gate          From Stiltzkin, from Moodon S,T,M
Moorock   Bran Bal/Pandemonium   to Mozme                    S,T,M,Sh
Mopli     Cleyra Settlement      Ruby to Zidane, to Serino   S,T,M
                                 from Monev
Morrison  Madain Sari            none                        none
Mosco     Prima Vista/Crash Site none                        S,T,M 
Mosh      Alexandria Chapel      from Kupo                   S,T,M
          Alexandria Knight’s
          Quarters
Mozme     Pandemonium            from Moorock                S,T,M,P
Nazna     Summit Station         from Grimo, to Mochos       S,T,M
Noggy     Daguerreo              from Mois, to Kupo          S,T,M
Serino    Red Rose               from Mopli, to Moodon       S,T,M
Suzuna    Mountain Path          from Mogmatt                S,T,M
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

From Burmecia until the end of the game, when you see Stlitzkin, he’ll offer 
you a set of items for a very reasonable price. So, but these items from him. 
Here’s where you will meet Stiltzkin.

Burmecia (First time): Ether, Hi-Potion, and Soft for 333 Gil
Cleyra Settlement: Hi-Potion, Ether, Phoenix Pinion for 444 Gil
Fossil Roo: Phoenix Pinion, Remedy, and Ether for 555 Gil
Mountain Path: Magic Tag, Tent, and Ether for 666 gil
Alexandria (start of Disc 3): Phoenix Pinion, Hi-Potion, and Elixir for 777
Oeilvert: Hi-Potion, Emerald, and Elixir for 888 gil
Bran Bal: Diamond, Ether, Elixir for 2,222 gil
Alexandria (Disc 4): Moonstone, Ruby, Elixir for 5,555 gil


                         =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
                                EQUIPMENTS
                         -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Equipments play an important part in the game. With out these you can’t fight 
and you can’t defend. So, whenever you arrive at a new town, try to buy new 
equipments. These equipments also contains abilities in which your character 
can learn and can contribute to your character’s fighting ability.

                               -----------
                                 Weapons
                               -----------

* arranged alphabetically and by its type

Daggers:
=============================================================================
DAGGER

Character/s:           Zidane
Ability/ies learned:   Flee (Action)
Attack:                12
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      With Zidane in the beginning of the game
                       Buy at weapon shop in Dali
Price (Buy/Sell):      320/160

=============================================================================
MAGE MASHER

Character/s:           Zidane
Ability/ies learned:   Detect (Action)
Attack:                14
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Found in the Ice Cavern, Buy at weapon shop in Dali
Price (Buy/Sell):      500/250

=============================================================================
MYTHRIL DAGGER

Character/s:           Zidane
Ability/ies learned:   Bandit (Support)
Attack:                18
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at weapon shop in Treno
Price (Buy/Sell):      950/475

=============================================================================
BUTTERFLY SWORD

Character/s:           Zidane
Ability/ies learned:   What’s That!? (Action), Protect Girls (Support)
Attack:                21
Added Status:          Silence
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      300/150 (Dagger and Mage Masher)

=============================================================================
THE OGRE

Character/s:           Zidane
Ability/ies learned:   Soul Blade (Action)
Attack:                24
Added Status:          Darkness
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      700/350 (2 Mage Mashers)

=============================================================================
GLADIUS

Character/s:           Zidane
Ability/ies learned:   Annoy (Action), Lucky Seven (Action)
Attack:                30
Added Status:          Slow
Where to get/buy:      Buy at weapon shop in Alexandria/Treno
Price (Buy/Sell):      2300/1150

=============================================================================
EXPLODA

Character/s:           Zidane
Ability/ies learned:   Sacrifice (Action), Lucky Seven (Action)
Attack:                31
Added Status:          Trouble
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Synthesis Shops in Alexandria/Treno/Lindblum
Price (Buy/Sell):      1000/500 (Mage Masher and Mythril Dagger)

=============================================================================
RUNE TOOTH

Character/s:           Zidane
Ability/ies learned:   Lucky Seven (Action)
Attack:                37
Added Status:          Poison
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Synthesis Shops in Alexandria/Treno/Lindblum
Price (Buy/Sell):      2000/1000 (2 Mythril Daggers)

=============================================================================
ANGEL BLESS

Character/s:           Zidane
Ability/ies learned:   Thievery (Action)
Attack:                44
Added Status:          Confuse
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Synthesis Shops in Alexandria/Treno/Lindblum
Price (Buy/Sell):      9000/4500 (Mythril Dagger and Gladius)

=============================================================================
SARGATANAS

Character/s:           Zidane
Ability/ies learned:   Annoy (Action)
Attack:                53
Added Status:          Petrify
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Synthesis Shops in Daguerreo
Price (Buy/Sell):      12000/6000 (Zorlin Shape and Gladius)

=============================================================================
MASAMUNE

Character/s:           Zidane
Ability/ies learned:   Sacrifice (Action)
Attack:                62
Added Status:          Doom
Where to get/buy:      Steal from Maliris at Memoria
Price (Buy/Sell):      16000/8000 (Zorlin Shape and Orichalcon)

=============================================================================
ORICHALCON

Character/s:           Zidane
Ability/ies learned:   Detect (Action)
Attack:                71
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Buy from Moogle at Bran Bal or Pandemonium
                       Buy from Equipment shop at Daguerreo
Price (Buy/Sell):      17000/8500

=============================================================================
THE TOWER

Character/s:           Zidane
Ability/ies learned:   Lucky Seven (Action), Thievery (Action)
Attack:                86
Added Status:          Mini
Where to get/buy:      Get it from a balcony at Memoria
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/15000

=============================================================================
ULTIMA WEAPON

Character/s:           Zidane
Ability/ies learned:   Flee (Action)
Attack:                100
Added Status:          Sleep
Where to get/buy:      Locate Chocobo’s Paradise Treasure #8
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/20000

=============================================================================


Rods:
=============================================================================
ROD

Character/s:           Dagger
Ability/ies learned:   Cure (Action), Panacea (Action), Protect (Action)
Attack:                11
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      With Garnet in the beginning of the game
                       Buy at weapon shop in Dali
Price (Buy/Sell):      260/130

=============================================================================
AIR RACKET

Character/s:           Dagger
Ability/ies learned:   Scan (Action), Panacea (Action)
Attack:                13
Added Status:          Wind
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Treno before Disc 3
Price (Buy/Sell):      400/200

=============================================================================
MYTHRIL ROD

Character/s:           Dagger
Ability/ies learned:   Life (Action), Silence (Action), Shell (Action)
Attack:                14
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Treno/Cleyra before Disc 3
Price (Buy/Sell):      560/280

=============================================================================
STARDUST ROD

Character/s:           Dagger
Ability/ies learned:   Ability Up (Support), Reflect (Action), Float (Action)
Attack:                16 (Spirit +2)
Added Status:          Shadow Damage reduced by 50%
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Treno and Lindblum
Price (Buy/Sell):      760/380

=============================================================================
MULTINA RACKET

Character/s:           Dagger, Eiko
Ability/ies learned:   Blind (Action), Stona (Action), Shell (Action)
Attack:                17
Added Status:          Wind
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Lindblum
Price (Buy/Sell):      750/375

=============================================================================
MAGIC RACKET

Character/s:           Dagger, Eiko
Ability/ies learned:   Berserk (Action), Mini (Action), Cure (Action)
Attack:                23 (Magic Power +2)
Added Status:          Wind; Raises Holy Elemental Attack
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Lindblum
Price (Buy/Sell):      1350/675

=============================================================================
HEALING ROD

Character/s:           Dagger
Ability/ies learned:   Healer (Support), Cura (Action), Life (Action)
Attack:                23
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Alexandria and Treno
Price (Buy/Sell):      1770/885

=============================================================================
MYTHRIL RACKET

Character/s:           Dagger, Eiko
Ability/ies learned:   Reflect (Action), Shell (Action), Protect (Action)
Attack:                27
Added Status:          Wind
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Mogshop in Bran Bal
Price (Buy/Sell):      2250/1125

=============================================================================
ASURA’S ROD

Character/s:           Dagger
Ability/ies learned:   Mini (Action), Confuse (Action), Silence (Action)
Attack:                27
Added Status:          Holy
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Esto Gaza Before Disc 4
Price (Buy/Sell):      3180/1560

=============================================================================
WIZARD ROD

Character/s:           Dagger
Ability/ies learned:   Curaga (Action), Protect (Action), Shell (Action)
Attack:                31
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Located near a ladder in Memoria. Buy at Black Mage
                       Village Equipment shop in disc 4
Price (Buy/Sell):      3990/1995

=============================================================================
PRIEST’S RACKET

Character/s:           Dagger,Eiko
Ability/ies learned:   Silence (Action), Might (Action)
Attack:                35
Added Status:          Wind
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Black Cat Synthesis shop
Price (Buy/Sell):      11000/5500 (Air Racket/Cachusha)

=============================================================================
WHALE WHISKER

Character/s:           Dagger
Ability/ies learned:   Curaga (Action), Life (Action)
Attack:                36
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Locate the “Ocean” Chocograph
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/5140

=============================================================================
TIGER RACKET

Character/s:           Dagger
Ability/ies learned:   Dispel (Action)
Attack:                45
Added Status:          Wind
Where to get/buy:      Use Dead Pepper on Choco at Quan’s Dwelling
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/2900

=============================================================================


Swords:
=============================================================================
BRONZE SWORD

Character/s:           Steiner
Ability/ies learned:   Beast Killer (Support)
Attack:                12
Where to get/buy:      With Steiner in the beginning of the game
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/165

=============================================================================
BROAD SWORD

Character/s:           Steiner
Ability/ies learned:   Beast Killer (Support)
Attack:                12
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Weapon shop in Dali
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      330/165

=============================================================================
IRON SWORD

Character/s:           Steiner
Ability/ies learned:   Minus Strike (Skill)
Attack:                16
Where to get/buy:      Steal from Baku at Prima Vista Crash Site
                       Buy at Weapon shop in Dali
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      660/330

=============================================================================
MYTHRIL SWORD

Character/s:           Steiner
Ability/ies learned:   Armor Break (Action)
Attack:                20
Where to get/buy:      Buy from Weapon Shop in Treno before Disc 3
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      1300/650

=============================================================================
BLOOD SWORD

Character/s:           Steiner
Ability/ies learned:   Darkside (Action)
Attack:                24
Where to get/buy:      Buy from Weapon Shop in Treno before Disc 3
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      1300/650

=============================================================================
ICE BRAND

Character/s:           Steiner
Ability/ies learned:   Mental Break (Action)
Attack:                35
Where to get/buy:      Steal from Beatrix. Buy at Alexandria/Lindblum
Added Status:          Ice, Freeze
Price (Buy/Sell):      3780/1890

=============================================================================
CORAL SWORD

Character/s:           Steiner
Ability/ies learned:   Charge! (Action)
Attack:                38
Where to get/buy:      Buy from Weapon Shop in Lindblum
Added Status:          Thunder
Price (Buy/Sell):      4000/2000

=============================================================================
DIAMOND SWORD

Character/s:           Steiner
Ability/ies learned:   Power Break (Action)
Attack:                42
Where to get/buy:      Buy from Weapon Shop in Esto Gaza before Disc 4
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      4750/2375

=============================================================================
FLAME SABER

Character/s:           Steiner
Ability/ies learned:   Magic Break (Action)
Attack:                46
Where to get/buy:      Buy from Weapon Shop in Esto Gaza before Disc 4
Added Status:          Fire, Heat
Price (Buy/Sell):      5190/2595

=============================================================================
RUNE BLADE

Character/s:           Steiner
Ability/ies learned:   Lai Strike (Action)
Attack:                57
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Daguerreo in Disc 3
Added Status:          Darkness
Price (Buy/Sell):      8900/4450

=============================================================================
DEFENDER

Character/s:           Steiner
Ability/ies learned:   Thunder Slash (Action)
Attack:                65 (Spirit +3)
Where to get/buy:      Buy from Mogshop at Bran Bal
Added Status:          Ice/Thunder damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      9340/4670

=============================================================================
ULTIMA SWORD

Character/s:           Steiner
Ability/ies learned:   Stock Break (Action)
Attack:                74
Where to get/buy:      Steal from Maliris at Memoria
Added Status:          Sleep
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/7000

=============================================================================
EXCALIBUR

Character/s:           Steiner
Ability/ies learned:   Climhazzard (Action)
Attack:                77
Where to get/buy:      Complete Auction House Side Quest at Treno 
Added Status:          Holy
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/9500

=============================================================================
RAGNAROK

Character/s:           Steiner
Ability/ies learned:   Shock (Action), Thunder Slash (Action)
Attack:                87
Where to get/buy:      Locate “Outer Island” Chocograph
Added Status:          Slow
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/14500

=============================================================================


Staves:
=============================================================================
MAGE STAFF

Character/s:           Vivi
Ability/ies learned:   Fire (Action)    
Attack:                12
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      With Vivi in the beginning of the game
                       Buy at weapon shop in Dali
Price (Buy/Sell):      320/160

=============================================================================
FLAME STAFF

Character/s:           Vivi
Ability/ies learned:   Fira (Action), Sleep (Action)
Attack:                16
Added Status:          Fire
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Black Mage Village
Price (Buy/Sell):      1100/550

=============================================================================
ICE STAFF

Character/s:           Vivi
Ability/ies learned:   Blizzara (Action), Slow (Action)
Attack:                16
Added Status:          Ice
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Black Mage Village
Price (Buy/Sell):      980/490

=============================================================================
LIGHTNING STAFF

Character/s:           Vivi
Ability/ies learned:   Thundara (Action), Poison (Action)
Attack:                16
Added Status:          Thunder
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Black Mage Village
Price (Buy/Sell):      1200/600

=============================================================================
OAK STAFF

Character/s:           Vivi
Ability/ies learned:   Stop (Action), Bio (Action), Drain (Action)
Attack:                23
Added Status:          Slow
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Treno
Price (Buy/Sell):      2400/1200

=============================================================================
CYPRESS PILE

Character/s:           Vivi
Ability/ies learned:   Demi (Action), Break (Action), Comet (Action)
Attack:                27
Added Status:          Confuse
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Lindblum or Esto Gaza
Price (Buy/Sell):      3200/1600

=============================================================================
OCTAGON ROD

Character/s:           Vivi
Ability/ies learned:   Firaga (Action), Blizzaga (Action), Thundaga (Action)
Attack:                29
Added Status:          Absorbs Water/Wind; Trouble; Raises Water Elem. Atk.
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Esto Gaza once you’re there. 
Price (Buy/Sell):      4500/2250

=============================================================================
HIGH MAGE STAFF

Character/s:           Vivi
Ability/ies learned:   Meteor (Action), Osmose (Action)
Attack:                32
Added Status:          Silence
Where to get/buy:      Locate “Forbidden Forest” Chocograph
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/3000

=============================================================================
MACE OF ZEUS   

Character/s:           Vivi
Ability/ies learned:   Doomsday (Action)
Attack:                35
Added Status:          Mini
Where to get/buy:      Found at Memoria (before gate to space)
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/5000

=============================================================================


Forks:
=============================================================================
FORK

Character/s:           Quina
Ability/ies learned:   High Tide (Support)
Attack:                21
Where to get/buy:      When you get Quina
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/550

=============================================================================
NEEDLE FORK

Character/s:           Quina
Ability/ies learned:   High Tide (Support)
Attack:                34
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Mogshop in Burmecia
Added Status:          Petrify
Price (Buy/Sell):      3100/1550

=============================================================================
MYTHRIL FORK

Character/s:           Quina
Ability/ies learned:   High Tide (Support)
Attack:                42
Where to get/buy:      Buy from Weapon Shop in Lindblum
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      4700/2350

=============================================================================
SILVER FORK

Character/s:           Quina
Ability/ies learned:   High Tide (Support)
Attack:                53
Where to get/buy:      Get 23 Frogs from the Marshes
Added Status:          Slow
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/3700

=============================================================================
BISTRO FORK

Character/s:           Quina
Ability/ies learned:   High Tide (Support)
Attack:                68
Where to get/buy:      Get 33 Frogs from Qu Marshes 
Added Status:          Sleep
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/5150

=============================================================================
GASTRO FORK

Character/s:           Quina
Ability/ies learned:   High Tide (Support)
Attack:                77
Where to get/buy:      Get 99 Frogs from Qu Marshes and defeat Quale
Added Status:          Stop
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/6650

=============================================================================


Knuckles/Claws:
=============================================================================
CAT’S CLAWS

Character/s:           Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Chakra (Action), Counter (Support)
Attack:                23
Where to get/buy:      Buy from Equipment Shop at Alexandria
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      4000/2000

=============================================================================
POISON KNUCKLES

Character/s:           Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Spare Change (Action), Counter (Support)
Attack:                33
Where to get/buy:      Buy from Equipment Shop at Alexandria
Added Status:          Poison
Price (Buy/Sell):      5000/2500

=============================================================================
MYTHRIL CLAWS

Character/s:           Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Curse (Action), Counter (Support)
Attack:                39
Where to get/buy:      Steal from Taharka at Ipsen’s Castle
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/3250

=============================================================================
SCISSOR FANGS

Character/s:           Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Aura (Action), Counter (Support)
Attack:                45
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Esto Gaza
Added Status:          Venom
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/4000

=============================================================================
DRAGON’S CLAWS

Character/s:           Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   No Mercy (Action), Counter (Support)
Attack:                53
Where to get/buy:      Locate Forgotten Lagoon Chocograph
Added Status:          Water
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/5180

=============================================================================
TIGER FANGS

Character/s:           Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Revive (Action), Counter (Support)
Attack:                62
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Daguerreo Equipment Shop in Disc 3
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/6750

=============================================================================
AVENGER    

Character/s:           Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Demi Shock (Action), Counter (Support)
Attack:                70
Where to get/buy:      Buy from Equipment Shop at Daguerreo
Added Status:          Death Blow (instant death attack)
Price (Buy/Sell):      16000/8000

=============================================================================
KAISER KNUCKLES

Character/s:           Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Countdown (Action), Curse (Action), Counter (Support)
Attack:                75
Where to get/buy:      Buy from Equipment Shop at Daguerreo
Added Status:          Wind, Trouble
Price (Buy/Sell):      18000/9000

=============================================================================
DUEL CLAWS     

Character/s:           Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Aura (Action), No Mercy (Action), Counter (Support)
Attack:                79
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Black Cat Synthesis Shop
Added Status:          Berserk
Price (Buy/Sell):      16000/8000 (Dragon’s Claws, Tiger Fangs)

=============================================================================
RUNE CLAWS 

Character/s:           Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Space Change (Action), Curse (Action), 
                       Counter (Support)
Attack:                83
Where to get/buy:      Get it at Memoria (check part 1 for instructions)
Added Status:          Darkness
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/14400

=============================================================================


Spears:
=============================================================================
JAVELIN

Character/s:           Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Dragon Killer (Support)
Attack:                18
Where to get/buy:      Buy from Equipment Shop at Lindblum before disc 3
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      880/440

=============================================================================
MYTHRIL SPEAR

Character/s:           Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Rei’s Wind (Action)
Attack:                20
Where to get/buy:      Buy from Mogshop at Ipsen’s Castle
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      1100/550

=============================================================================
PARTISAN

Character/s:           Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Lancer (Action), High Tide (Support)
Attack:                25
Where to get/buy:      Buy from Equipment Shop at Alexandria/Lindblum
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      1600/800

=============================================================================
ICE LANCE

Character/s:           Freya
Ability/ies learned:   White Draw (Action)
Attack:                31
Where to get/buy:      Buy from Equipment Shop at Alexandria/Lindblum/Treno
Added Status:          Ice, Freeze
Price (Buy/Sell):      2430/1215

=============================================================================
TRIDENT

Character/s:           Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Luna (Action)
Attack:                37
Where to get/buy:      Desert Palace Mogshop
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/1790

=============================================================================
HEAVY LANCE

Character/s:           Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Six Dragons (Action)
Attack:                42
Where to get/buy:      Buy from Equipment Shop at Esto Gaza before Disc 4
Added Status:          Stop
Price (Buy/Sell):      4700/2350

=============================================================================
OBELISK

Character/s:           Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Cherry Blossom (Action), Initiative (Support)
Attack:                52
Where to get/buy:      Buy from Equipment Shop at Daguerreo in Disc 3
Added Status:          Petrify
Price (Buy/Sell):      6000/3000

=============================================================================
HOLY LANCE

Character/s:           Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Dragon’s Crest (Action)
Attack:                62
Where to get/buy:      Buy from Equipment Shop at Daguerreo
Added Status:          Holy
Price (Buy/Sell):      11000/5500

=============================================================================
KAIN’S LANCE

Character/s:           Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Dragon’s Crest (Action), Cherry Blossom (Action),
                       White Draw (Action)
Attack:                71
Where to get/buy:      Found at Memoria near first save point
Added Status:          Confuse
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/7500

=============================================================================
DRAGON’S HAIR

Character/s:           Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Dragon Breath (Action)
Attack:                77
Where to get/buy:      Get Chocobo’s Paradise Treasure #1
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/11750

=============================================================================


Flutes:
=============================================================================
GOLEM’S FLUTE

Character/s:           Eiko
Ability/ies learned:   Auto-Regen (Support), Cura (Action), Life (Action)
Attack:                17
Where to get/buy:      When you get Eiko, Madain Sari 
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      350/175

=============================================================================
LAMIA’S FLUTE

Character/s:           Eiko
Ability/ies learned:   Float (Action), Stona (Action), Silence (Action)
Attack:                21
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Alexandria/Treno
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      3800/1900

=============================================================================
HAMELIN       

Character/s:           Eiko
Ability/ies learned:   Curaga, Might, Jewel
Attack:                27
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Daguerreo in Disc 3
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      5700/2850

=============================================================================
SIREN’S FLUTE

Character/s:           Eiko
Ability/ies learned:   Full-Life (Action), Dispel (Action), Esuna (Action)
Attack:                30
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Black Mage Village (Disc 4)
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      7000/3500

=============================================================================
ANGEL FLUTE

Character/s:           Eiko
Ability/ies learned:   Holy (Action), Esuna (Action), Curaga (Action)
Attack:                33
Where to get/buy:      Get near Second Save point in Memoria
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/4150

=============================================================================




                           --------------------
                              Helmets / Hats
                           --------------------

* - Alphabetically Arranged
=============================================================================
ADAMAN HAT

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Quina, Eiko, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   HP+20% (Support), Gamble Defense (Support)
Magic Defense:         33 (+3 Defense)
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Daguerreo
Added Status:          Thunder Damage Reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      6100/3050

=============================================================================
BANDANA

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Quina, Eiko, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Man Eater (Support), Insomniac (Support)
Magic Defense:         12 (+1 Speed, +1 Spirit, +2 Evade)
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Dragon’s Gate (man selling equipments)
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      500/250

=============================================================================
BARBUT

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Alert (Support), Dragon Killer (Support)
Magic Defense:         9 (+2 Spirit)
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Alexandria/Treno
                       Mogshop at Burmecia
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      330/165

=============================================================================
BLACK HOOD

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Quina, Eiko
Ability/ies learned:   Accuracy+ (Support), Locomotion (Support), 
                       Death (Action)
Magic Defense:         27
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Esto Gaza before Disc 4
                       Get one at Desert Palace
Added Status:          Fire/Thunder/Water Damage Reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      2250/1125

=============================================================================
BRONZE HELM

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Bug Killer (Support)
Magic Defense:         6
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Dali
Added Status:          Water Damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      330/165

=============================================================================
CIRCLET

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Quina, Eiko, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Jelly (Support), Clear Headed (Support)
Magic Defense:         51
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Black Cat Synthesis Shop
Added Status:          Earth Damage reduced by 100%
Price (Buy/Sell):      20000/10000 (Coronet, Rosetta Ring)

=============================================================================
CORONET

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Quina, Eiko, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Man Eater (Support), Return Magic (Support)
Magic Defense:         35 (+1 Defense)
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Daguerreo, Bran Bal
Added Status:          Wind Damage reduced by 100%
Price (Buy/Sell):      4400/2200

=============================================================================
CROSS HELM

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   MP Attack (Support), Devil Killer (Support)
Magic Defense:         16 (+1 Strength)
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Mogshop in Ipsen’s Castle
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      2200/1100

=============================================================================
DARK HAT

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Quina, Eiko, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   High Tide (Support), Jelly (Support)
Magic Defense:         21
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Lindblum
Added Status:          Ice Damage Reduced by 100%
Price (Buy/Sell):      1800/900

=============================================================================
FEATHER HAT

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Quina, Eiko
Ability/ies learned:   Bright Eyes (Support), Add Status (Support)
Magic Defense:         7 (+1 Spirit)
Where to get/buy:      Buy from Weapon shop at Dali
Added Status:          Raises Wing Elem-Atk
Price (Buy/Sell):      200/100

=============================================================================
FLASH HAT

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Eye 4 Eye (Support), Beast Killer (Support)
Magic Defense:         37 (+1 Speed, +2 Evade)
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Daguerreo
Added Status:          Raises Thunder/Holy Elem-Atk.
Price (Buy/Sell):      5200/2600

=============================================================================
GENJI HELMET

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   HP+20% (Support)
Magic Defense:         29 (+2 Magic, +2 Defense)
Where to get/buy:      Locate Chocobo’s Paradise Treasure #6
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/1

=============================================================================
GOLD HELM

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Mental Break (Action), Rei’s Wind (Action), 
                       Clear Headed (Support)
Magic Defense:         13 (+1 Magic)
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Alexandria/Lindblum/Treno
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      1800/900

=============================================================================
GOLDEN HAIRPIN

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Quina, Eiko, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Auto-Regen (Support), Loudmouth (Support)
Magic Defense:         32 (+1 Magic, +2 Magic Evade)
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Daguerreo
Added Status:          Raises Water Elem-Atk.
Price (Buy/Sell):      3700/1850

=============================================================================
GOLDEN SKULLCAP

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Quina, Eiko, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Power Up (Support), Locomotion (Support)
Magic Defense:         47 (+2 Defense)
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Black Cat Synthesis Shop
Added Status:          Earth Damage Reduced by 50%, Raises Water Elem-Atk.
Price (Buy/Sell):      15000/7500 (Gold Helm, Golden Hairpin)

=============================================================================
GRAND HELM

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   High Tide (Support)
Magic Defense:         33 (+1 Speed)
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Black Cat Synthesis Shop
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      20000/10000 (Cross Helm, Power Belt)

=============================================================================
GREEN BERET

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Quina, Eiko, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Ability Up (Support), Clear Headed (Support)
Magic Defense:         23 (+1 Strength, +1 Speed)
Where to get/buy:      Oeilvert
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/1090

=============================================================================
HEADGEAR

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Quina, Eiko, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Undead Killer (Support)
Magic Defense:         6 (+2 Defense)
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Burmecia Mogshop
Added Status:          Water Damage Reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      330/165

=============================================================================
HOLY MITER

Character/s:           Dagger, Vivi, Quina, Eiko
Ability/ies learned:   Insomniac (Support), Body Temp (Support)
Magic Defense:         39 (+1 Magic, +2 Spirit)
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Black Mage Village (Disc 4)
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      8300/4150

=============================================================================
IRON HELM  

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Bright Eyes (Support), Level Up (Support)
Magic Defense:         6 (+1 Spirit)
Where to get/buy:      Steal from big Plant at Evil Forest
                       Buy at Lindblum Weapon Shop
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      450/225

=============================================================================
KAISER HELM

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Eye 4 Eye (Support)
Magic Defense:         26 (+1 Strength, +1 Magic)
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Daguerreo
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      7120/3560

=============================================================================
LAMIA’S TIARA

Character/s:           Dagger, Vivi, Quina, Eiko
Ability/ies learned:   Clear Headed (Support), Confuse (Action), 
                       Float (Action)
Magic Defense:         17 (+1 Magic, +1 Spirit)
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Alexandria/Treno/Daguerreo
Added Status:          Wind damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      800/400

=============================================================================
LEATHER HAT  

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Quina, Eiko, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Fire (Action)
Magic Defense:         6
Where to get/buy:      With Vivi and Zidane in the beginning of the game
                       Buy at Weapon shop in Dali
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      150/75

=============================================================================
MAGE’S HAT

Character/s:           Dagger, Vivi, Quina, Eiko
Ability/ies learned:   Loudmouth (Support), Fira (Action)
Magic Defense:         14 (+1 Magic)
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Daguerreo/Fossil Roo
Added Status:          Raises Holy/Shadow Elem-Atk.
Price (Buy/Sell):      600/300

=============================================================================
MAGUS HAT

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Quina, Eiko
Ability/ies learned:   Slow (Action)
Magic Defense:         10
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Burmecia Mogshop
Added Status:          Raises Ice Elem-Atk
Price (Buy/Sell):      400/200

=============================================================================
MANTRA BAND

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Quina, Eiko, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   HP+20% (Support), Antibody (Support)
Magic Defense:         19 (+1 Magic, +1 Spirit, +1 Defense)
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Lindblum
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      1500/750

=============================================================================
MYTHRIL HELM

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Insomniac (Support), Antibody (Support)
Magic Defense:         11 (+1 Spirit)
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Alexandria/Treno
                       Lindblum Dragon’s Gate
Added Status:          Raises Holy Elem-Atk.
Price (Buy/Sell):      1000/500

=============================================================================
PLATINUM HELM

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Restore HP (Support), Stone Killer (Support)
Magic Defense:         23
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Daguerreo
Added Status:          Ice Damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      4600/2300

=============================================================================
RED HAT

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Quina, Eiko, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   MP Attack (Support), Cover (Support)
Magic Defense:         26 (+1 Defense)
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Mogshop at Ipsen’s Castle
Added Status:          Raises Fire Elem-Atk.
Price (Buy/Sell):      3000/1500

=============================================================================
RITUAL HAT

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Quina, Eiko, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Counter (Support), Bright Eyes (Support), Undead
                       Killer (Support)
Magic Defense:         16 (+1 Strength, +1 Defense)
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Treno
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      1000/500

=============================================================================
RUBBER HELM

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Minus Strike (Action)
Magic Defense:         5
Where to get/buy:      Found inside the Prima Vista at Crash Site
                       Buy at Weapon shop in Dali
Added Status:          Thunder Damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      250/75

=============================================================================
STEEPLED HAT

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Quina, Eiko
Ability/ies learned:   Protect (Action)
Magic Defense:         9 (+1 Spirit)
Where to get/buy:      Steal from Black Waltz #2
                       Buy from Lindblum Weapon Shop
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      260/130

=============================================================================
STRAW HAT

Character/s:           Everyone
Ability/ies learned:   none
Magic Defense:         0
Where to get/buy:      Locate Chocobo’s Paradise Treasure #2
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/750

=============================================================================
THIEF HAT

Character/s:           Zidane
Ability/ies learned:   Long Reach (Support), Lucky Seven (Action), 
                       Mug (Support)
Magic Defense:         38 (+2 Speed, +3 Evade)
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Black Mage Village (Disc 4)
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      7100/3550

=============================================================================
TWIST HEADBAND

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Quina, Eiko, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Gamble Defense (Support), Add Status (Support)
Magic Defense:         17 (+1 Strength)
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Alexandria/Lindblum/Treno
Added Status:          Raises Earth Elem-Atk.
Price (Buy/Sell):      1200/600

=============================================================================


                       ---------------------------
                         Armors / Vests / Shirts
                       ---------------------------

* - Arranged in alphabetical order
=============================================================================
ADAMAN VEST

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Stone Killer (Support), Bird Killer (Support)
Defense:               14
Bonus/es:              Magic Defense +2
Where to get/buy:      Buy from man at Dragon’s Gate or man inside Fossil Roo
Added Status:          Fire damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      1600/800

=============================================================================
ALOHA T-SHIRT

Character/s:           Everyone
Ability/ies learned:   none             
Defense:               0
Bonus/es:              none
Where to get/buy:      Locate Chocobo’s Paradise Treasure #2.
                       Give Kupo nuts to Moguta at Gizamaluke’s Grotto.
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/9500

=============================================================================
BLACK ROBE

Character/s:           Vivi, Quina
Ability/ies learned:   MP+20% (Support), Flare (Action), Reflectx2 (Support)
Defense:               43
Bonus/es:              Magic +2, Magic Defense +4
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Daguerreo Synthesis Shop
Added Status:          Raises Shadow Elem-Atk.
Price (Buy/Sell):      8000/4000 (Gaia Gear, N-Kai Armlet)

=============================================================================
BRAVE SUIT

Character/s:           Zidane, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Restore HP (Support), Auto-Regen (Support)
Defense:               42
Bonus/es:              Spirit +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Black Mage village (Disc 4)
Added Status:          Raises Fire Elem-Atk 
Price (Buy/Sell):      26000/13000 (Mythril Vest, Mythril Rod)

=============================================================================
BRIGANDINE

Character/s:           Zidane, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Ability Up (Support), Return Magic (Support)
Defense:               20
Bonus/es:              Strength +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Alexandria/Lindblum/Treno
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      4380/2190

=============================================================================
BRONZE ARMOR

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Bird Killer (Support)
Defense:               9
Bonus/es:              none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Dali
Added Status:          Wind damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      650/325

=============================================================================
BRONZE VEST

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Jelly (Support)
Defense:               9
Bonus/es:              Magic Defense +1, Spirit +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Mogshop in Burmecia
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      670/335

=============================================================================
CARABINI MAIL

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Auto-Regen (Support)
Defense:               39
Bonus/es:              Speed +1, Spirit +1, Magic Defense +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Daguerreo
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      12300/6150

=============================================================================
CHAIN MAIL

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Bird Killer (Support), HP+10% (Support)
Defense:               12
Bonus/es:              none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Cleyra
Added Status:          Earth damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      1200/600

=============================================================================
CHAIN PLATE

Character/s:           Zidane, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Devil Killer (Support)
Defense:               10
Bonus/es:              Strength +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at man at Dragon’s Gate or man inside Fossil Roo
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      810/405

=============================================================================
COTTON ROBE

Character/s:           Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina
Ability/ies learned:   Chemist (Support), Shell (Action)
Defense:               10
Bonus/es:              Strength +1, Magic +1, Magic Defense +2
Where to get/buy:      Buy from all Synthesis Shops (except HADES)
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      1000/500 (Wrist, Steepled Hat)

=============================================================================
DARK GEAR

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Clear Headed (Support), Jelly (Support)
Defense:               37
Bonus/es:              Spirit +2
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Black Mage village (Disc 4)
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      16300/8150

=============================================================================
DEMON’S MAIL

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   High Tide (Support)
Defense:               27
Bonus/es:              none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Mogshop in Ipsen’s Castle
Added Status:          Raises/Absorbs Shadow Elem-Atk.
Price (Buy/Sell):      5900/2950

=============================================================================
DEMON’S VEST

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Devil Killer (Support), Auto-Potion (Support)
                       Locomotion (Support)
Defense:               31
Bonus/es:              Magic +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Daguerreo
Added Status:          Shadow damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      10250/5125

=============================================================================
DRAGON MAIL

Character/s:           Freya
Ability/ies learned:   High Jump (Support)
Defense:               42
Bonus/es:              Strength +1, Magic +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Daguerreo
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      14000/7000

=============================================================================
GAIA GEAR

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Insomniac (Support), High Tide (Support)
                       Osmose (Action)
Defense:               25
Bonus/es:              Magic Defense +2
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Mogshop in Ipsen’s Castle
Added Status:          Absorbs Earth Elem-Atk. Raises your Earth Elem-Atk.
Price (Buy/Sell):      8700/4350

=============================================================================
GENJI ARMOR

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Body Temp (Support), Accuracy+ (Support)
Defense:               45
Bonus/es:              Magic +2 Magic Defense +1
Where to get/buy:      Locate Outer Island 2 Chocograph
Added Status:          none 
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/1

=============================================================================
GLUTTON’S ROBE

Character/s:           Quina
Ability/ies learned:   Antibody (Support), Body Temp (Support),
                       Auto-Regen (Support)
Defense:               41
Bonus/es:              Strength +1, Magic +1, Magic Defense +4
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Synthesis shop in Daguerreo
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      6000/3000 (Mythril Fork, Cotton Robe)

=============================================================================
GOLD ARMOR

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Stone Killer (Support)
Defense:               19
Bonus/es:              none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Esto Gaza before Disc 4
Added Status:          none 
Price (Buy/Sell):      2950/1475

=============================================================================
GRAND ARMOR

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Chemist (Support), Restore HP (Support)
Defense:               59
Bonus/es:              Strength +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Black Cat Synthesis Shop
Added Status:          Shadow damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      45000/22500 (Mythril Sword Mythril Armor)

=============================================================================
JUDO UNIFORM

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Distract (Support), HP+10% (Support)
Defense:               23
Bonus/es:              Strength +1, Spirit +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Esto Gaza before Disc 4
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      5000/2500

=============================================================================
LEATHER PLATE

Character/s:           Zidane, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Chakra (Action)
Defense:               10
Bonus/es:              none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Lindblum before Disc 3
Added Status:          Ice damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      530/265

=============================================================================
LEATHER SHIRT

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Protect Girls (Support)             
Defense:               6
Bonus/es:              none
Where to get/buy:      With Vivi and Zidane in the beginning of the game
                       Buy at weapon shop in Dali
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      270/135 

=============================================================================
LIGHT ROBE

Character/s:           Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina
Ability/ies learned:   Half MP (Support), Auto-Regen (Support), 
                       Full-Life (Action)
Defense:               41
Bonus/es:              Strength +1, Magic +1, Magic Defense +6, Spirit +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Black Cat Synthesis Shop
Added Status:          Raises Holy/Shadow Elem-Atk.
Price (Buy/Sell):      20000/10000 (Magician Robe, Glass Armlet)

=============================================================================
LINEN CUIRASS

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Cover (Support)
Defense:               10
Bonus/es:              Magic +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Mogshop in Burmecia
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      800/400

=============================================================================
MAGICIAN CLOAK

Character/s:           Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina
Ability/ies learned:   Restore HP (Support), High Tide (Support)
Defense:               15
Bonus/es:              Magic +1, Magic Defense +2
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Alexandria/Lindblum/Treno
Added Status:          Raises Ice Elem-Atk.
Price (Buy/Sell):      1850/925

=============================================================================
MAGICIAN ROBE

Character/s:           Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina
Ability/ies learned:   Auto-Potion (Support), MP+10% (Support)
Defense:               21
Bonus/es:              Magic +2, Magic Defense +3
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Synthesis shop in Alexandria/Lindblum/Treno
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      3000/1500 (Mage Staff, Magician Cloak)

=============================================================================
MAXIMILLIAN

Character/s:           Steiner
Ability/ies learned:   HP+20% (Support)
Defense:               54
Bonus/es:              Spirit +3
Where to get/buy:      Locate Chocobo’s Paradise Treasure #8
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      650/325

=============================================================================
MINERVA’S PLATE

Character/s:           Dagger, Eiko, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Restore HP (Support), High Tide (Support)
Defense:               34
Bonus/es:              Strength +1, Magic +2, Magic Defense +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Daguerreo
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      12200/6100

=============================================================================
MYTHRIL ARMOR

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Jelly (Support), Cover (Support)
Defense:               15
Bonus/es:              none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Alexandria/Treno/Lindblum
Added Status:          Water damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      1830/915

=============================================================================
MYTHRIL VEST

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Auto-Potion (Support)
Defense:               12
Bonus/es:              none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at man at Dragon’s Gate or man inside Fossil Roo
Added Status:          Water damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      1180/590

=============================================================================
NINJA GEAR

Character/s:           Zidane, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Alert (Support), Locomotion (Support),
                       Eye 4 Eye (Support)
Defense:               35
Bonus/es:              Speed +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Daguerreo
Added Status:          Absorbs Shadow Elem-Atk.
Price (Buy/Sell):      14000/7000

=============================================================================
PLATE MAIL

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Locomotion (Support), Undead Killer (Support)
Defense:               17
Bonus/es:              Spirit +1, Magic Evade +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Alexandria/Lindblum/Treno 
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      2320/1160

=============================================================================
PLATINA ARMOR

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Beast Killer (Support)
Defense:               36
Bonus/es:              none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Daguerreo
Added Status:          Ice damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      10500/5250

=============================================================================
POWER VEST

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Stone Killer (Support), Gamble Defense (Support)
                       Counter (Support)
Defense:               27
Bonus/es:              Strength +2
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Mogshop in Ipsen’s Castle
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      7200/3600

=============================================================================
ROBE OF LORDS

Character/s:           Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina
Ability/ies learned:   Reflect-Null (Support), Concentrate (Support)
Defense:               46
Bonus/es:              Speed +1, Strength +1, Magic +1, Spirit +1, 
                       Magic Defense +5
Where to get/buy:      Buy from HADES. Exchange 10000 Chocobo Hot & Cold
                       points. Get 12 Stellazzios.
Added Status:          Wind damage reduced by 100%
Price (Buy/Sell):      30000/15000 (White Robe, Black Robe)

=============================================================================
RUBBER SUIT

Character/s:           Dagger, Eiko, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Eye 4 Eye (Support), Esuna (Action)
Defense:               39
Bonus/es:              Evade +2, Magic Defense +1, Magic Evade +3
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Black Cat Synthesis Shop
Added Status:          Thunder damage reduced by 100%
Price (Buy/Sell):      20000/10000 (Minerva’s Plate, Egoist’s Armlet)

=============================================================================
SHIELD ARMOR

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Distract (Support)
Defense:               23
Bonus/es:              Magic Defense +5
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Mogshop in Ipsen’s Castle
Added Status:          Fire/Ice/Thunder damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      4300/2150

=============================================================================
SILK ROBE

Character/s:           Dagger, Eiko, Quina
Ability/ies learned:   Ability Up (Support), Loudmouth (Support)
Defense:               16
Bonus/es:              Strength +1, Magic +1, Magic Defense +2
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Synthesis shop in Alexandria/Lindblum/Treno
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      2000/1000 (Silk Shirt, Bandana)

=============================================================================
SILK SHIRT

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Cure (Action), Thunder (Action)
Defense:               9
Bonus/es:              none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Dali
Added Status:          Thunder damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      400/200

=============================================================================
SURVIVAL VEST

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Locomotion (Support), Antibody (Support), 
                       Mug (Support)
Defense:               17
Bonus/es:              Strength +2
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment shop in Alexandria/Treno
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      2900/1450

=============================================================================
TIN ARMOR

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   none
Defense:               63
Bonus/es:              Magic Defense +27, Evade +32, Magic Evade +17
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Legendary Synthesis Shop (HADES)
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      50000/25000 (Ore, Hammer)

=============================================================================
WHITE ROBE

Character/s:           Dagger, Eiko
Ability/ies learned:   Loudmouth (Support), Auto-Potion (Support),
                       Holy (Action)
Defense:               42
Bonus/es:              Magic +2, Magic Defense +3
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Synthesis Shop in Daguerreo
Added Status:          Raises Holy Elem-Atk.
Price (Buy/Sell):      8000/4000 (Gaia Gear, Jade Armlet)

=============================================================================


                    ---------------------------------
                      Wrist Band / Gloves / Armlets
                    ---------------------------------

* - Alphabetically Arranged
=============================================================================
AEGIS GLOVES

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Charge! (Action)
Evade:                 32
Magic Evade:           12
Bonus/es:              Defense +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Daguerreo
Added Status:          nulls Fire damage
Price (Buy/Sell):      7000/3500

=============================================================================
BONE WRIST

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Add Status (Support)
Evade:                 17
Magic Evade:           15
Bonus/es:              Strength +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Alexandria/Treno 
Added Status:          Raises Earth Elem-Atk
Price (Buy/Sell):      330/165

=============================================================================
BRACER

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Add Status (Support), Power Throw (Action)
Evade:                 39
Magic Evade:           24
Bonus/es:              Strength +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Black Cat Synthesis Shop
Added Status:          Raises Wind Elem-Atk. 
Price (Buy/Sell):      24000/12000 (Battle Boots, Venetia Shield)

=============================================================================
BRONZE GLOVES

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Antibody (Support)
Evade:                 10
Magic Evade:           4
Bonus/es:              Spirit +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Dali
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      480/240

=============================================================================
CHIMERA ARMLET

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Mug (Support), Add Status (Support)
Evade:                 26
Magic Evade:           20
Bonus/es:              none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Lindblum
Added Status:          Holy damage reduced by 100%
Price (Buy/Sell):      1200/600

=============================================================================
DEFENSE GLOVES

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   HP+20% (Support)
Evade:                 27
Magic Evade:           22
Bonus/es:              Defense +1, Magic Defense +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Daguerreo
Added Status:          Fire/Ice/Thunder damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      6000/3000

=============================================================================
DIAMOND GLOVES

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Ability Up (Support), Jelly (Support)
Evade:                 21
Magic Evade:           15
Bonus/es:              none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Esto Gaza before Disc 4
Added Status:          Water damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      2000/1000

=============================================================================
DRAGON WRIST

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Antibody (Support)
Evade:                 32
Magic Evade:           18
Bonus/es:              Strength +7, Magic Defense +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Daguerreo
Added Status:          Shadow damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      4800/2400

=============================================================================
EGOIST’S ARMLET

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Beast Killer (Support), Level Up (Support)
Evade:                 24
Magic Evade:           26
Bonus/es:              none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Daguerreo
Added Status:          Shadow damage reduced by 100%
Price (Buy/Sell):      2000/1000

=============================================================================
GAUNTLETS

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Cover (Support)
Evade:                 38
Magic Evade:           9
Bonus/es:              Speed +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Black Cat Synthesis Shop
Added Status:          Fire/Earth/Water/Wind damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      8000/4000 (Mythril Gloves, Dragon Wrist)

=============================================================================
GENJI GLOVES

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   High Tide (Support)
Evade:                 29
Magic Evade:           19
Bonus/es:              Magic +2
Where to get/buy:      Steal from Lich at Memoria
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/1

=============================================================================
GLASS ARMLET

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Steal Gil (Support), Antibody (Support)
Evade:                 11
Magic Evade:           13
Bonus/es:              none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Alexandria, Mogshop in
                       Burmecia
Added Status:          Water damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      250/125

=============================================================================
JADE ARMLET

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Body Temp (Support), High Tide (Support)
Evade:                 0
Magic Evade:           33
Bonus/es:              Magic Defense +2
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Mogshop at Ipsen’s Castle
Added Status:          Raises Holy Elem-Atk.
Price (Buy/Sell):      3400/1700

=============================================================================
LEATHER WRIST

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Beast Killer (Support), Blizzard (Action)
Evade:                 11
Magic Evade:           11
Bonus/es:              Speed +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Dali
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      200/100

=============================================================================
MAGIC ARMLET

Character/s:           Dagger, Eiko, Quina, Vivi 
Ability/ies learned:   Clear Headed (Support), Silence (Action)
Evade:                 16
Magic Evade:           16
Bonus/es:              Magic Defense +1, Magic +2
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Alexandria/Treno/Daguerreo
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      1000/500

=============================================================================
MYTHRIL ARMLET

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Bug Killer (Support)
Evade:                 21
Magic Evade:           17
Bonus/es:              Strength +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Alexandria/Treno
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      500/250

=============================================================================
MYTHRIL GLOVES

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Man Eater (Support), Bug Killer (Support)
Evade:                 15
Magic Evade:           9
Bonus/es:              Spirit +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Alexandria/Treno
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      980/490

=============================================================================
N-KAI ARMLET

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Bandit (Support), Undead Killer (Support), 
                       Water (Action)
Evade:                 31
Magic Evade:           0
Bonus/es:              Spirit +2, Defense +2
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Mogshop at Ipsen’s Castle
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      3000/1500

=============================================================================
PEARL ARMLET

Character/s:           Everyone
Ability/ies learned:   none
Evade:                 0
Magic Evade:           0
Bonus/es:              none
Where to get/buy:      Locate Chocobo’s Paradise Treasure #2
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/490

=============================================================================
POWER WRIST

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Accuracy+ (Support)
Evade:                 34
Magic Evade:           16
Bonus/es:              Strength +2
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Daguerreo
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      5100/2550

=============================================================================
SILVER GLOVES

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Undead Killer (Support)
Evade:                 12
Magic Evade:           7
Bonus/es:              none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Lindblum before Disc 3
Added Status:          Ice damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      720/360

=============================================================================
THIEF GLOVES

Character/s:           Zidane, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Master Thief (Support)
Evade:                 30
Magic Evade:           19
Bonus/es:              Speed +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Daguerreo Synthesis Shop, win at Treno 
                       Auction House (preferred)
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      50000/25000 (Mythril Armlet, Sargatanas)

=============================================================================
THUNDER GLOVES

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Devil Killer (Support), Add Status (Support)
Evade:                 18
Magic Evade:           12
Bonus/es:              none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Alexandria/Lindblum/Treno
Added Status:          Thunder Elem-atk, Thunder damage reduced by 50%
Price (Buy/Sell):      1200/600

=============================================================================
VENETIA SHIELD

Character/s:           Steiner, Freya
Ability/ies learned:   Auto-Float (Support), Counter (Support)
Evade:                 19
Magic Evade:           28
Bonus/es:              Strength +1, Magic +7, Magic Defense +1
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Mogshop at Ipsen’s Castle
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      2800/1400

=============================================================================
WRIST

Character/s:           Zidane, Dagger, Vivi, Eiko, Quina, Amarant
Ability/ies learned:   Flee-Gil (Support)
Evade:                 9
Magic Evade:           9
Bonus/es:              none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Equipment Shop in Dali
Added Status:          none
Price (Buy/Sell):      130/65

=============================================================================


                             ---------------
                               Accessories
                             ---------------

* Listed in Alphabetical Order
=============================================================================
AMETHYST STONE

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Atomos (Action), Demi (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      none
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Black Cat, Daguerreo Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      200/1 (Ore, Annoyntment)

=============================================================================
ANCIENT AROMA

Character/s:           Women
Ability/ies learned:   Odin’s Sword
Ability Upgrades:      Strength +2, Evade +4
Added Status:          Raises Shadow Elem-Atk.
Where to get/buy:      Found inside Ipsen’s Castle
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/1

=============================================================================
ANGEL EARRINGS

Character/s:           Women
Ability/ies learned:   Auto-Regen (Support), MP+20% (Support),
                       Rei’s Wind (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      Strength +2, Defense +2
Added Status:          Raises Holy Elem-Atk.
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Daguerreo Synthesis Shop
Price (Buy/Sell):      8000/4000 (Fairy Earrings, Barette)

=============================================================================
AQUAMARINE STONE

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Leviathan (Action), HP+10% (Support)
Ability Upgrades:      none
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Dagger automatically gets it.
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/1

=============================================================================
BARETTE

Character/s:           Women
Ability/ies learned:   Chemist (Support), Gamble Defense (Support),
                       Cura (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      Strength +2, Evade
Added Status:          Raises Shadow Elem-Atk.
Where to get/buy:      Found inside Ipsen’s Castle
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/3500

=============================================================================
BATTLE BOOTS

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   MP Attack (Support), Initiative (Support), 
                       HP+20% (Support)
Ability Upgrades:      Strength +2, Defense +2, Magic Defense +1
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Daguerreo Synthesis Shop
Price (Buy/Sell):      6500/3250 (Feather Boots, Wing Edge)

=============================================================================
BLACK BELT

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   HP+20% (Support), Beast Killer (Support), 
                       Demi (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      Strength +2, Spirit +2, Defense +1
Added Status:          Raises Wind Elem-Atk.
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Alexandria/Treno/Lindblum Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      4000/2000 (Twist Headband, Survival Vest)

=============================================================================
CACHUSHA

Character/s:           Women
Ability/ies learned:   Odin’s Sword (Support)
Ability Upgrades:      Strength +2, Evade +4
Added Status:          Raises Shadow Elem-Atk.
Where to get/buy:      Found inside Ipsen’s Castle
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/1500

=============================================================================
CORAL RING

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Insomniac (Support), Man-Eater (Support),
                       Lancer (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      Spirit +2, Magic Evade +2
Added Status:          Absorbs Thunder Elem-Atk.
Where to get/buy:      Buy at various Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      1200/600 (Lightning Staff, Rod)

=============================================================================
DARK MATTER

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Odin (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      Strength +3, Magic +3
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Win at Treno Auction House
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/1

=============================================================================
DESERT BOOTS

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Flee-Gil (Support), Protect (Action), Scan (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      Magic +1, Spirit +1, Evade +2
Added Status:          Earth damage reduced by 50%
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Treno, Black Cat Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      300/150 (Leather Hat, Leather Shirt)

=============================================================================
DIAMOND

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Body Temp (Support), Distract (Support)
Ability Upgrades:      none
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Buy from Stiltzkin’s Item Set at Bran Bal.
                       Receive from Friendly Garuda.
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/1

=============================================================================
EMERALD STONE

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Haste (Action), MP+10% (Support), White Draw (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      none
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Buy Stiltzkin’s Item set at Oeilvert
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/1

=============================================================================
EXTENSION

Character/s:           Women
Ability/ies learned:   Auto-Potion (Support), MP+10% (Support), 
                       Level Up (Support)
Ability Upgrades:      Strength +1, Magic +2, Defense +1, Magic Defense +1
Added Status:          Raises Thunder Elem-Atk.
Where to get/buy:      Buy Alexandria/Lindblum/Treno Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      3500/1750 (Lamia’s Tiara, Multina Racket)

=============================================================================
FAIRY EARRINGS

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Level Up (Support), Body Temp (Support), 
                       Regen (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      Spirit +2, Evade +4, Magic Evade +2
Added Status:          Raises Wind Elem-Atk.
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Alexandria/Treno/Lindblum Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      3200/1600 (Magic Armlet, soft)

=============================================================================
FEATHER BOOTS

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Auto-Float (Support), Float (Action), Mini (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      Evade +3
Added Status:          Absorbs Earth Elem-Atk.
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Alexandria/Treno/Lindblum Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      4000/2000 (Magician Shoes, Phoenix Pinion)

=============================================================================
GARNET STONE

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Bahamut (Action), Healer (Support)
Ability Upgrades:      none
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Black Cat, Daguerreo Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      350/1 (Ore, Remedy)

=============================================================================
GERMINAS BOOTS

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Alert (Support), HP+10% (Support), Flee (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      Strength +1, Evade +2
Added Status:          Raises Earth Elem-Atk.
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Alexandria/Treno/Lindblum Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      900/450 (Desert Boots, Fork)

=============================================================================
GLASS BUCKLE

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Antibody (Support), Add Status (Support),
                       Thunder (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      Strength +1, Magic +1, Spirit +2, Magic Evade +5
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at various Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      500/250 (Glass Armlet, Leather Wrist)

=============================================================================
GOLD CHOKER

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Auto Potion (Support), Flee-Gil (Support),
                       Shell (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      Magic +2, Evade +2, Magic Defense +1
Added Status:          Raises Shadow Elem-Atk. Wind damage reduced by 50%
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Alexandria/Treno/Lindblum Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      1300/650 (Linen Cuirass, Soft)

=============================================================================
LAPIS LAZULI

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Ability Up (Support), Accuracy+ (Support)
Ability Upgrades:      none
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Black Cat, Daguerreo Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      400/1 (Ore, Dead Pepper)

=============================================================================
MADAIN’S RING

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Body Temp (Support), Chemist (Support),
                       Guardian Mog (Support)
Ability Upgrades:      Spirit +2, Magic Defense +2
Added Status:          Absorbs Ice Elem-Atk.
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Alexandria/Treno/Lindblum Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      3000/1500 (Bone Wrist, Stardust Rod)

=============================================================================
MAGICIAN SHOES

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   MP+10% (Support), Clear Headed (Support),
                       Blind (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      Magic +2, Magic Evade +6
Added Status:          none 
Where to get/buy:      Buy at various Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      1500/750 (Germinas Boots, Bone Wrist)

=============================================================================
MAIDEN PRAYER

Character/s:           Women
Ability/ies learned:   Auto-Regen (Support)
Ability Upgrades:      Magic +1, Magic Defense +1, Magic Evade +3
Added Status:          Raises Holy Elem-Atk.
Where to get/buy:      Found inside Ipsen’s Castle
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/1

=============================================================================
MOONSTONE

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Shell (Action), Beast Killer (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      none
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Buy Stiltzkin’s Item set at Alexandria (Disc 4)
                       Bring 4 colored stones at statue in Conde Petie
                       Mountain Path
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/1

=============================================================================
OPAL STONE

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Shiva (Action), Blizzara (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      none
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Black Cat, Daguerreo Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      100/1 (Ore, Potion)

=============================================================================
PEARL ROUGE

Character/s:           Women
Ability/ies learned:   Level Up (Support), Reflect-Null (Support), 
                       Loudmouth (Support)
Ability Upgrades:      Magic +2, Spirit +4, Magic Evade +4
Added Status:          Holy damage reduced by 50%. Raises Water Elem-Atk.
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Alexandria/Lindblum/Treno Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      5000/2500 (Moonstone, Elixir)

=============================================================================
PERIDOT STONE

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Ramuh (Action), Thundara (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      none
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Black Cat, Daguerreo Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      100/1 (Ore, Soft)

=============================================================================
POWER BELT

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   MP Attack (Support), Counter (Support), Fira (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      Strength +3, Defense +2
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Alexandria/Treno/Lindblum Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      2000/1000 (Glass Buckle, Chain Mail)

=============================================================================
PROMIST RING

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Restore HP (Support), Absorb MP (Support), 
                       Magic Elem-null (Support)
Ability Upgrades:      Strength +2, Evade +3
Added Status:          none 
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Daguerreo Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      6000/3000 (Chimera Armlet, Ruby Stone)

=============================================================================
PROTECT RING

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Long Reach (Support), Magic Elem Null (Support),
                       Half MP (Support)
Ability Upgrades:      Spirit +1, Defense +2, Evade +4, Magic Defense +3,
                       Magic Evade +6
Added Status:          All Elemental damage reduced by 50%
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Legendary Synthesis Shop (HADES)
Price (Buy/Sell):      40000/20000 (Dark Matter, Rebirth Ring)

=============================================================================
PUMICE

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Ark (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      Speed +1, Magic +1, Defense +1, Magic Defense +2
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Legendary Synthesis Shop (HADES)
Price (Buy/Sell):      50000/25000 (2 Pumice Pieces)

=============================================================================
PUMICE PIECE

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Boost (Support)
Ability Upgrades:      Strength + 2, Magic + 2, Evade + 5, Magic Def + 1
Added Status:          Holy/Shadow
Where to get/buy:      Get after beating Ark, locate “Outer Island 2”
                       Chocograph, Synthesize at Black Cat’s
Price (Buy/Sell):      25000/12500 (Pumice and Hammer)

=============================================================================
REBIRTH RING

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Auto-Life (Support), Life (Action), Revive (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      Spirit +3, Magic Defense +2
Added Status:          Raises Holy Elem-Atk.
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Daguerreo Synthesis Shop
Price (Buy/Sell):      7000/3500 (Diamond, Anklet)

=============================================================================
REFLECT RING

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Auto-Reflect (Support), Reflect (Action),
                       Distract (Support)
Ability Upgrades:      Strength +1, Spirit +1, Magic Defense +1
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Alexandria/Treno/Lindblum Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      7000/3500 (Anklet, Madain’s Ring)

=============================================================================
RIBBON

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Madeen (Action), Ability Up (Support), 
                       Guardian Mog (Support)
Ability Upgrades:      Strength +1, Magic +3, Spirit +1, Defense +1, 
                       Evade +5, Magic Defense +1, Magic Evade +4
Added Status:          Absorbs Water/Wind Elem-Atk.
                       Fire/Ice/Thunder/Holy damage reduced by 50%
Where to get/buy:      Win at Treno Auction House. Locate “Forgotten
                       Island” Chocograph. Eiko will receive it automatically
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/1

=============================================================================
ROSETTA RING

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Level Up (Support), Concentrate (Support),
                       Reflectx2 (Support)
Ability Upgrades:      Magic +1, Defense +1, Evade +2, Magic Defense +3,
                       Magic Evade +2
Added Status:          Raises Fire Elem-Atk.
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Black Cat Synthesis Shop
Price (Buy/Sell):      24000/12000 (Madain’s Ring, Holy Lance)

=============================================================================
RUBY STONE

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Carbuncle (Action), Reflect (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      none
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Eiko automatically gets it at Iifa Tree. 
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/1

=============================================================================
RUNNING SHOES

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Auto-Haste (Support), Auto-Potion (Support), 
                       Haste (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      Speed +2, Evade +4, Magic Evade +4
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Black Cat Synthesis Shop
Price (Buy/Sell):      12000/6000 (Battle Boots, Emerald)

=============================================================================
SANDALS

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   none
Ability Upgrades:      none
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Locate Chocobo’s Paradise Treasure #2
Price (Buy/Sell):      -/600

=============================================================================
SAPPHIRE STONE

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Fenrir (Action), High Tide (Support)
Ability Upgrades:      none
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Black Mage, Daguerreo Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      200/1 (Ore, Antidote)

=============================================================================
TOPAZ STONE

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Ifrit (Action), Fira (Action)
Ability Upgrades:      none
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Black Cat, Daguerreo Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      100/1 (Ore, Eye Drops)

=============================================================================
YELLOW SCARF

Character/s:           All
Ability/ies learned:   Bird Killer (Support), Millionaire (Support),
                       Steal Gil (Support)
Ability Upgrades:      Strength +2, Magic Defense +1
Added Status:          none
Where to get/buy:      Buy at Various Synthesis Shops
Price (Buy/Sell):      400/200 (Feather Hat, Steepled Hat)

=============================================================================


                         =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
                                  SHOPS
                         -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

Here’s are the list of shops that found throughout the game and all their 
goodies. This will include Item, Equipment, and Synthesis Shops. 

ALEXANDRIA
==========
  
  Item Shop:
  ----------
  Potion             50 gil
  Phoenix Down       150 gil
  Antidote           50 gil
  Eye Drop           50 gil
  Tent               800 gil

  Item Shop (Disc 3):
  -------------------
  Potion             50 gil
  Hi-Potion          200 gil
  Phoenix Down       150 gil
  Echo Screen        50 gil
  Antidote           50 gil
  Eye Drop           50 gil
  Soft               100 gil
  Annoyntment        150 gil
  Remedy             300 gil
  Tent               800 gil

  Equipment Shop (Disc 3):
  ------------------------
  Mythril Dagger    950 gil   Bone Wrist       330 gil
  Gladius          2300 gil   Mythril Armlet   500 gil
  Ice Brand        3780 gil   Magic Armlet    1000 gil
  Partisan         1600 gil   Mythril Gloves   980 gil
  Ice Lance        2430 gil   Thunder Gloves  1200 gil
  Cat’s Claws      4000 gil   Lamia’s Tiara    800 gil
  Poison Knuckles  5000 gil   Ritual Hat      1000 gil
  Stardust Rod      760 gil   Twist Headband  1200 gil
  Healing Rod      1770 gil   Barbut           600 gil
  Lamia’s Flute    3800 gil   Mythril Helm    1000 gil
  Flame Staff      1100 gil   Gold Helm       1800 gil
  Ice Staff         980 gil   Magician Cloak  1850 gil
  Lightning Staff  1200 gil   Survival Vest   2900 gil
  Oak Staff        2400 gil   Brigandine      4380 gil
  Pinwheel          200 gil   Mythril Armor   1830 gil
  Glass Armlet      250 gil   Plate Mail      2320 gil

  Synthesis Shop (Disc 3):
  ------------------------
  Butterfly Sword   =  Dagger          Mage Masher         300 gil
  The Ogre          =  Mage Masher     Mage Masher         700 gil
  Exploda           =  Mage Masher     Mythril Dagger     1000 gil
  Rune Tooth        =  Mythril Dagger  Mythril Dagger     2000 gil
  Angel Bless       =  Mythril Dagger  Gladius            9000 gil
  Cotton Robe       =  Wrist           Steepled Had       1000 gil
  Silk Robe         =  Silk Shirt      Bandana            2000 gil
  Magician Robe     =  Mage Staff      Magician Cloak     3000 gil
  Desert Boot       =  Leather Hat     Leather Shirt       300 gil
  Yellow Scarf      =  Feather Hat     Steepled Had        400 gil
  Glass Buckle      =  Glass Armlet    Leather Wrist       500 gil
  Germinas Boots    =  Desert Boots    Fork                900 gil
  Cachusha          =  Magus Hat       Rubber Helm        1000 gil
  Coral Ring        =  Lightning Staff Rod                1200 gil
  Gold Choker       =  Linen Cuirass   Soft               1300 gil
  Magician Shoes    =  Germinas Boots  Bone Wrist         1500 gil
  Barette           =  Needle Fork     Barbut             1800 gil
  Power Belt        =  Glass Buckle    Chain Mail         2000 gil
  Madain’s Ring     =  Bone Wrist      Stardust Rod       3000 gil
  Fairy Earrings    =  Magic Armlet    Soft               3200 gil
  Extension         =  Lamia’s Tiara   Multina Racket     3500 gil
  Reflect Ring      =  Anklet          Madain’s Ring      7000 gil
  Anklet            =  Gold Choker     Peridot Gem        4000 gil
  Feather Boots     =  Magician Shoes  Phoenix Pinion     4000 gil
  Black Belt        =  Twist Headband  Survival Vest      4000 gil
  Pearl Rouge       =  Moonstone       Elixir             5000 gil

PRIMA VISTA CRASH SITE
======================
  
  Cinna (before rescuing Garnet w/ Steiner and Vivi):
  ---------------------------------------------------
  Potion             50 gil
  Phoenix Down       150 gil
  Antidote           50 gil
  Eye Drop           50 gil
  Tent               800 gil

NORTH GATE (Melda Arch)
=======================
  
  Girl behind the Gate:
  ---------------------
  Potion             50 gil

SOUTH GATE
==========
  
  Part-Time worker Mary:
  ----------------------
  Potion             50 gil
  Phoenix Down       150 gil
  Antidote           50 gil
  Eye Drop           50 gil
  Tent               800 gil

  Item Shop Vega:
  ---------------
  Potion             50 gil
  Phoenix Down       150 gil
  Antidote           50 gil
  Eye Drop           50 gil
  Tent               800 gil

VILLAGE OF DALI
===============

  Item Shop:
  ----------
  Potion             50 gil
  Phoenix Down       150 gil
  Antidote           50 gil
  Eye Drop           50 gil
  Tent               800 gil

  Equipment Shop:
  ---------------
  Dagger          320 gil  Bronze Gloves     480 gil
  Mage Masher     500 gil  Leather Hat       150 gil
  Broad Sword     330 gil  Feather Hat       200 gil
  Iron Sword      660 gil  Rubber Helm       250 gil
  Rod             260 gil  Bronze Helm       330 gil
  Mage Staff      320 gil  Leather Shirt     270 gil
  Wrist           130 gil  Silk Shirt        400 gil
  Leather Wrist   200 gil  Bronze Armor      650 gil

LINDBLUM
========

  Item Shop:
  ----------
  Potion             50 Gil
  Phoenix Down       150 Gil
  Echo Screen        50 Gil
  Antidote           50 Gil
  Eye Drop           50 Gil
  Soft               100 Gil
  Tent               800 Gil

  Weapon Shop:
  ------------
  Dagger            320 gil  Leather Wrist   200 gil 
  Mage Masher       500 gil  Glass Armlet    250 gil
  Mythril Dagger    950 gil  Bronze Gloves   480 gil
  Iron Sword        660 gil  Silver Gloves   720 gil
  Javelin           880 gil  Steepled Hat    260 gil
  Rod               260 gil  Headgear        330 gil
  Fork             1100 gil  Iron Helm       450 gil

  Synthesis Shop:
  ---------------
  Butterfly Sword   =  Dagger          Mage Masher         300 gil
  The Ogre          =  Mage Masher     Mage Masher         700 gil
  Cotton Robe       =  Wrist           Steepled Had       1000 gil
  Desert Boot       =  Leather Hat     Leather Shirt       300 gil
  Yellow Scarf      =  Feather Hat     Steepled Had        400 gil
  Glass Buckle      =  Glass Armlet    Leather Wrist       500 gil

  Man selling items at Dragon’s Gate:
  -----------------------------------
  Potion             50 gil
  Phoenix Down       150 gil
  Echo Screen        50 gil
  Antidote           50 gil
  Eye Drop           50 gil
  Soft               100 gil
  Tent               800 gil

  Equipment Shop (Disc 3):
  ------------------------
  Coral Sword      4000 gil   Survival Vest  2900 gil
  Partisan         1600 gil   Brigandine     4380 gil
  Ice Lance        2430 gil   Mythril Armor  1830 gil
  Poison Knuckles  5000 gil   Plate Mail     2320 gil
  Magic Racket     1350 gil   Potion           50 gil
  Healing Rod      1770 gil   Hi-Potion       200 gil
  Lamia’s Flute    3800 gil   Phoenix Down    150 gil
  Cypress Pile     3200 gil   Echo Screen      50 gil
  Mythril Fork     4700 gil   Antidote         50 gil
  Pinwheel          200 gil   Eye Drops        50 gil
  Chimera Armlet   1200 gil   Soft            100 gil
  Thunder Gloves   1200 gil   Annoyntment     150 gil
  Twist Headband   1200 gil   Magic Tag       100 gil
  Mantra Band      1500 gil   Remedy          300 gil
  Dark Hat         1800 gil   Tent            800 gil
  Gold Helm        1800 gil
  Magician Cloak   1850 gil

  Synthesis Shop (Disc 3):
  ------------------------
  Butterfly Sword   =  Dagger          Mage Masher         300 gil
  The Ogre          =  Mage Masher     Mage Masher         700 gil
  Exploda           =  Mage Masher     Mythril Dagger     1000 gil
  Rune Tooth        =  Mythril Dagger  Mythril Dagger     2000 gil
  Angel Bless       =  Mythril Dagger  Gladius            9000 gil
  Cotton Robe       =  Wrist           Steepled Had       1000 gil
  Silk Robe         =  Silk Shirt      Bandana            2000 gil
  Magician Robe     =  Mage Staff      Magician Cloak     3000 gil
  Desert Boot       =  Leather Hat     Leather Shirt       300 gil
  Yellow Scarf      =  Feather Hat     Steepled Had        400 gil
  Glass Buckle      =  Glass Armlet    Leather Wrist       500 gil
  Germinas Boots    =  Desert Boots    Fork                900 gil
  Cachusha          =  Magus Hat       Rubber Helm        1000 gil
  Coral Ring        =  Lightning Staff Rod                1200 gil
  Gold Choker       =  Linen Cuirass   Soft               1300 gil
  Magician Shoes    =  Germinas Boots  Bone Wrist         1500 gil
  Barette           =  Needle Fork     Barbut             1800 gil
  Power Belt        =  Glass Buckle    Chain Mail         2000 gil
  Madain’s Ring     =  Bone Wrist      Stardust Rod       3000 gil
  Fairy Earrings    =  Magic Armlet    Soft               3200 gil
  Extension         =  Lamia’s Tiara   Multina Racket     3500 gil
  Reflect Ring      =  Anklet          Madain’s Ring      7000 gil
  Anklet            =  Gold Choker     Peridot Gem        4000 gil
  Feather Boots     =  Magician Shoes  Phoenix Pinion     4000 gil
  Black Belt        =  Twist Headband  Survival Vest      4000 gil
  Pearl Rouge       =  Moonstone       Elixir             5000 gil

SOUTH GATE CITADEL
==================

  Item Shop:
  ----------
  Potion             50 gil
  Phoenix Down       150 gil
  Echo Screen        50 gil
  Antidote           50 gil
  Eye Drop           50 gil
  Soft               100 gil
  Tent               800 gil

BURMECIA
========

  Mogshop (Atla)
  --------------
  Needle Fork      3100 gil   Linen Cuirass   800 gil
  Glass Armlet     250 gil    Potion          50 gil
  Mythril Gloves   980 gil    Phoenix Down    150 gil
  Steepled Hat     260 gil    Echo Screen      50 gil
  Headgear         330 gil    Soft            100 gil
  Magus Hat        400 gil    Antidote         50 gil
  Barbut           600 gil    Eye Drops        50 gil
  Bronze Vest      670 gil    Tent            800 gil

SUMMIT STATION (SOUTH GATE)
===========================

  Man at the bottom of the cafe
  -----------------------------
  Air Racket        400
  Mythril Rod       560 
  Glass Armlet      250
  Silver Gloves     720    
  Mythril Gloves    980
  Steepled Hat      260
  Headgear          330
  Magus Hat         400
  Rubber Helm       250
  Iron Helm         450    
  Barbut            600
  Bronze Vest       670
  Linen Cuirass     800 
  Potion             50
  Phoenix Down      150
  Echo Screen        50
  Soft              100
  Antidote           50
  Eye Drops          50
  Tent              800

TRENO
=====

  Synthesis Shop:
  ---------------
  Butterfly Sword   =  Dagger          Mage Masher         300 gil
  The Ogre          =  Mage Masher     Mage Masher         700 gil
  Cotton Robe       =  Wrist           Steepled Had       1000 gil
  Desert Boot       =  Leather Hat     Leather Shirt       300 gil
  Yellow Scarf      =  Feather Hat     Steepled Had        400 gil
  Glass Buckle      =  Glass Armlet    Leather Wrist       500 gil
  Germinas Boots    =  Desert Boots    Fork                900 gil
  Cachusha          =  Magus Hat       Rubber Helm        1000 gil
  Coral Ring        =  Lightning Staff Rod                1200 gil
  Gold Choker       =  Linen Cuirass   Soft               1300 gil

  Equipments Shop:
  ----------------
  Dagger             320 gil   Glass Armlet      250 gil
  Mage Masher        500 gil   Bone Wrist        330 gil
  Mythril Dagger     950 gil   Mythril Gloves    980 gil
  Mythril Sword     1300 gil   Magus Hat         400 gil
  Mythril Spear     1100 gil   Bandana           500 gil
  Air Racket         400 gil   Barbut            600 gil
  Mythril Rod        560 gil   Silk shirt        400 gil
  Flame Staff       1100 gil   Leather Plate     530 gil
  Ice Staff          980 gil   Bronze Vest       670 gil
  Lightning Staff   1200 gil   Chain Plate       810 gil
  Fork              1100 gil   Linen Cuirass     800 gil
  Needle Fork       3100 gil   Chain Mail       1200 gil
  Leather Wrist      200 gil

  Item Shop:
  ----------
  Potion             50 gil
  Phoenix Down       150 gil
  Echo Screen        50 gil
  Antidote           50 gil
  Eye Drop           50 gil
  Soft               100 gil
  Tent               800 gil

  Equipment Shop (Disc 3):
  ------------------------
  Mythril Dagger    950 gil   Bone Wrist       330 gil
  Gladius          2300 gil   Mythril Armlet   500 gil
  Ice Brand        3780 gil   Magic Armlet    1000 gil
  Partisan         1600 gil   Mythril Gloves   980 gil
  Ice Lance        2430 gil   Thunder Gloves  1200 gil
  Cat’s Claws      4000 gil   Lamia’s Tiara    800 gil
  Poison Knuckles  5000 gil   Ritual Hat      1000 gil
  Stardust Rod      760 gil   Twist Headband  1200 gil
  Healing Rod      1770 gil   Barbut           600 gil
  Lamia’s Flute    3800 gil   Mythril Helm    1000 gil
  Flame Staff      1100 gil   Gold Helm       1800 gil
  Ice Staff         980 gil   Magician Cloak  1850 gil
  Lightning Staff  1200 gil   Survival Vest   2900 gil
  Oak Staff        2400 gil   Brigandine      4380 gil
  Pinwheel          200 gil   Mythril Armor   1830 gil
  Glass Armlet      250 gil   Plate Mail      2320 gil

  Synthesis Shop (Disc 3):
  ------------------------
  Butterfly Sword   =  Dagger          Mage Masher         300 gil
  The Ogre          =  Mage Masher     Mage Masher         700 gil
  Exploda           =  Mage Masher     Mythril Dagger     1000 gil
  Rune Tooth        =  Mythril Dagger  Mythril Dagger     2000 gil
  Angel Bless       =  Mythril Dagger  Gladius            9000 gil
  Cotton Robe       =  Wrist           Steepled Had       1000 gil
  Silk Robe         =  Silk Shirt      Bandana            2000 gil
  Magician Robe     =  Mage Staff      Magician Cloak     3000 gil
  Desert Boots      =  Leather Hat     Leather Shirt       300 gil
  Yellow Scarf      =  Feather Hat     Steepled Had        400 gil
  Glass Buckle      =  Glass Armlet    Leather Wrist       500 gil
  Germinas Boots    =  Desert Boots    Fork                900 gil
  Cachusha          =  Magus Hat       Rubber Helm        1000 gil
  Coral Ring        =  Lightning Staff Rod                1200 gil
  Gold Choker       =  Linen Cuirass   Soft               1300 gil
  Magician Shoes    =  Germinas Boots  Bone Wrist         1500 gil
  Barette           =  Needle Fork     Barbut             1800 gil
  Power Belt        =  Glass Buckle    Chain Mail         2000 gil
  Madain’s Ring     =  Bone Wrist      Stardust Rod       3000 gil
  Fairy Earrings    =  Magic Armlet    Soft               3200 gil
  Extension         =  Lamia’s Tiara   Multina Racket     3500 gil
  Reflect Ring      =  Anklet          Madain’s Ring      7000 gil
  Anklet            =  Gold Choker     Peridot Gem        4000 gil
  Feather Boots     =  Magician Shoes  Phoenix Pinion     4000 gil
  Black Belt        =  Twist Headband  Survival Vest      4000 gil
  Pearl Rouge       =  Moonstone       Elixir             5000 gil

  Item Shop (Disc 3):
  -------------------
  Potion             50 gil
  Hi-Potion          200 gil
  Phoenix Down       150 gil
  Echo Screen        50 gil
  Antidote           50 gil
  Eye Drop           50 gil
  Soft               100 gil
  Annoyntment        150 gil
  Remedy             300 gil
  Tent               800 gil

CLEYRA
======
  
  Equipments (Dan):
  -----------------
  Partisan         1600 gil   Thunder Gloves   1200 gil
  Multina Racket    700 gil   Magus Hat         400 gil
  Mythril Rod       560 gil   Bandana           500 gil
  Flame Staff      1100 gil   Mage’s Hat        600 gil
  Ice Staff         980 gil   Mythril Helm     1000 gil
  Needle Fork      3100 gil   Chain Plate       810 gil
  Bone Wrist        330 gil   Mythril Vest     1180 gil
  Mythril Armlet    500 gil   Chain Mail       1200 gil
  Mythril Gloves    980 gil   Mythril Armor    1830 gil

  Items (Star Maiden Nina):
  -------------------------
  Potion             50 gil
  Phoenix Down       150 gil
  Echo Screen        50 gil
  Antidote           50 gil
  Eye Drop           50 gil
  Soft               100 gil
  Annoyntment        150 gil
  Tent               800 gil

LINDBLUM (After Alexandria’s Attack)
====================================

  Weapon Shop:
  ------------
  Dagger            320 gil   Mythril Gloves    980 gil
  Mage Masher       300 gil   Thunder Gloves   1200 gil
  Mythril Dagger    950 gil   Headgear          330 gil
  Ice Brand        3780 gil   Magus Hat         400 gil
  Partisan         1600 gil   Bandana           500 gil
  Multina Racket    750 gil   Mage’s Hat        600 gil
  Stardust Rod      760 gil   Mythril Helm     1000 gil
  Flame Staff      1100 gil   Silk Shirt        400 gil
  Ice Staff         980 gil   Leather Plate     530 gil
  Lightning Staff  1200 gil   Bronze Vest       670 gil
  Leather Wrist     200 gil   Chain Plate       810 gil
  Glass Armlet      250 gil   Mythril Vest     1180 gil
  Bone Wrist        330 gil   Chain Mail       1200 gil
  Mythril Armlet    500 gil   Mythril Armor    1830 gil

  Items (Woman near the Equipment Shop):
  --------------------------------------
  Potion             50 gil
  Phoenix Down       150 gil
  Echo Screen        50 gil
  Antidote           50 gil
  Eye Drop           50 gil
  Soft               100 gil
  Annoyntment        150 gil
  Tent               800 gil

  Synthesis Shop:
  ---------------
  Butterfly Sword   =  Dagger          Mage Masher         300 gil
  The Ogre          =  Mage Masher     Mage Masher         700 gil
  Exploda           =  Mage Masher     Mythril Dagger     1000 gil
  Cotton Robe       =  Wrist           Steepled Had       1000 gil
  Desert Boot       =  Leather Hat     Leather Shirt       300 gil
  Yellow Scarf      =  Feather Hat     Steepled Had        400 gil
  Glass Buckle      =  Glass Armlet    Leather Wrist       500 gil
  Germinas Boots    =  Desert Boots    Fork                900 gil
  Cachusha          =  Magus Hat       Rubber Helm        1000 gil
  Coral Ring        =  Lightning Staff Rod                1200 gil
  Gold Choker       =  Linen Cuirass   Soft               1300 gil
  Magician Shoes    =  Germinas Boots  Bone Wrist         1500 gil
  Barette           =  Needle Fork     Barbut             1800 gil
  Power Belt        =  Glass Buckle    Chain Mail         2000 gil

DRAGON’S GATE (After Alexandria attacks Lindblum):
==================================================

  Man selling stuff:
  ------------------
  Ice Brand        3780 gil   
  Partisan         1600 gil   
  Multina Racket    750 gil
  Stardust Rod      760 gil  
  Mythril Armlet    500 gil
  Thunder Gloves   1200 gil
  Bandana           500 gil
  Mage’s Hat        600 gil
  Mythril Helm     1000 gil
  Chain Plate       810 gil
  Mythril Vest     1180 gil
  Adaman Vest      1600 gil
  Mythril Armor    1830 gil
  Potion             50 gil
  Phoenix Down      150 gil
  Echo Screen        50 gil
  Antidote           50 gil
  Eye Drop           50 gil
  Soft              100 gil
  Annoyntment       150 gil
  Tent              800 gil

FOSSIL ROO
==========

  Man selling stuff:
  ------------------
  Ice Brand        3780 gil   
  Partisan         1600 gil   
  Multina Racket    750 gil
  Stardust Rod      760 gil  
  Mythril Armlet    500 gil
  Thunder Gloves   1200 gil
  Bandana           500 gil
  Mage’s Hat        600 gil
  Mythril Helm     1000 gil
  Chain Plate       810 gil
  Mythril Vest     1180 gil
  Adaman Vest      1600 gil
  Mythril Armor    1830 gil
  Potion             50 gil
  Phoenix Down      150 gil
  Echo Screen        50 gil
  Antidote           50 gil
  Eye Drop           50 gil
  Soft              100 gil
  Annoyntment       150 gil
  Tent              800 gil

CONDE PETIE
===========

  Item Shop:
  ----------
  Potion             50 gil
  Phoenix Down       150 gil
  Echo Screen        50 gil
  Antidote           50 gil
  Eye Drop           50 gil
  Soft               100 gil
  Annoyntment        150 gil
  Tent               800 gil

  Equipment Shop:
  ---------------
  Poison Knuckles   5000 gil  Mythril Fork    4700 gil
  Multina Racket     750 gil  Magic Armlet    1000 gil
  Flame Staff       1100 gil  Lamia’s Tiara    800 gil
  Lightning Staff   1200 gil  Ritual Hat      1000 gil
  Stardust Rod       760 gil  Adaman Vest     1600 gil
  Ice Staff          980 gil  Magician Cloak  2000 gil
  Oak Staff         2400 gil

BLACK MAGE VILLAGE
==================

  Equipment Shop:
  ---------------
  Mage Masher       300 gil  Steepled Hat      260 gil
  Mythril Dagger    950 gil  Headgear          330 gil
  Gladius          2300 gil  Magus Hat         400 gil
  Stardust Rod      760 gil  Bandana           500 gil
  Mage Staff        320 gil  Mage’s Hat        600 gil
  Flame Staff      1100 gil  Lamia’s Tiara     800 gil
  Ice Staff         980 gil  Ritual Hat       1000 gil
  Lightning Staff  1200 gil  Silk Shirt        400 gil
  Oak Staff        2400 gil  Leather Plate     530 gil
  Mythril Fork     4700 gil  Bronze Vest       670 gil
  Leather Wrist     200 gil  Chain Plate       810 gil
  Glass Armlet      250 gil  Mythril Vest     1180 gil
  Bone Wrist        330 gil  Adaman Vest      1600 gil
  Mythril Armlet    500 gil  Magician Cloak   1850 gil
  Magic Armlet     1000 gil  Survival Vest    2900 gil
  Leather Hat       150 gil

  Item Shop:
  ----------
  Potion             50 gil
  Hi-Potion          200 gil
  Phoenix Down       150 gil
  Echo Screen        50 gil
  Antidote           50 gil
  Eye Drop           50 gil
  Soft               100 gil
  Annoyntment        150 gil
  Remedy             300 gil
  Tent               800 gil

  Synthesis Shop:
  ---------------
  Butterfly Sword   =  Dagger          Mage Masher         300 gil
  The Ogre          =  Mage Masher     Mage Masher         700 gil
  Exploda           =  Mage Masher     Mythril Dagger     1000 gil
  Rune Tooth        =  Mythril Dagger  Mythril Dagger     2000 gil
  Cotton Robe       =  Wrist           Steepled Had       1000 gil
  Silk Robe         =  Silk Shirt      Bandana            2000 gil
  Desert Boot       =  Leather Hat     Leather Shirt       300 gil
  Yellow Scarf      =  Feather Hat     Steepled Had        400 gil
  Glass Buckle      =  Glass Armlet    Leather Wrist       500 gil
  Germinas Boots    =  Desert Boots    Fork                900 gil
  Cachusha          =  Magus Hat       Rubber Helm        1000 gil
  Coral Ring        =  Lightning Staff Rod                1200 gil
  Gold Choker       =  Linen Cuirass   Soft               1300 gil
  Magician Shoes    =  Germinas Boots  Bone Wrist         1500 gil
  Barette           =  Needle Fork     Barbut             1800 gil
  Power Belt        =  Glass Buckle    Chain Mail         2000 gil
  Madain’s Ring     =  Bone Wrist      Stardust Rod       3000 gil
  Fairy Earrings    =  Magic Armlet    Soft               3200 gil
  Extension         =  Lamia’s Tiara   Multina Racket     3500 gil
  Reflect Ring      =  Anklet          Madain’s Ring      7000 gil

  Equipment Shop (Disc 4):
  ------------------------
  Wizard Rod      3990 gil
  Siren’s Flute   7000 gil
  High Mage Staff 6000 gil
  Thief Hat       7100 gil
  Holy Miter      8300 gil
  Dark Gear      16300 gil

  Black Cat Synthesis Shop (Disc 4):
  ----------------------------------
  Butterfly Sword   =  Dagger          Mage Masher         300 gil
  The Ogre          =  Mage Masher     Mage Masher         700 gil
  Exploda           =  Mage Masher     Mythril Dagger     1000 gil
  Rune Tooth        =  Mythril Dagger  Mythril Dagger     2000 gil
  Angel Bless       =  Mythril Dagger  Gladius            9000 gil
  Sargatanas        =  Gladius         Zorlin Shape      12000 gil
  Masamune          =  Zorlin Shape    Orichalcon        16000 gil
  Duel Claws        =  Dragon’s Claws  Tiger Fangs       16000 gil
  Priest’s Racket   =  Air Racket      Cachusha          11000 gil
  Bracer            =  Battle Boots    Venetia Shield    24000 gil
  Gauntlets         =  Mythril Gloves  Dragon Wrist       8000 gil
  Golden Skullcap   =  Gold Helm       Golden Hairpin    15000 gil
  Circlet           =  Coronet         Rosetta Ring      20000 gil
  Grand Helm        =  Cross Helm      Power Belt        20000 gil
  Rubber Suit       =  Minerva’s Plate Egoist’s Armlet   20000 gil
  Brave Suit        =  Mythril Vest    Mythril Rod       26000 gil
  Light Robe        =  Magician Robe   Glass Armlet      20000 gil
  Grand Armor       =  Mythril Sword   Mythril Armor     45000 gil
  Desert Boots      =  Leather Hat     Leather Shirt       300 gil
  Yellow Scarf      =  Feather Hat     Steepled Had        400 gil
  Glass Buckle      =  Glass Armlet    Leather Wrist       500 gil
  Germinas Boots    =  Desert Boots    Fork                900 gil
  Gold Choker       =  Linen Cuirass   Soft               1300 gil
  Running Shoes     =  Battle Boots    Emerald           12000 gil
  Rosetta Ring      =  Madain’s Ring   Holy Lance        24000 gil
  Garnet            =  Ore             Remedy              350 gil
  Amethyst          =  Ore             Annoyntment         200 gil
  Peridot           =  Ore             Soft                100 gil
  Sapphire          =  Ore             Antidote            200 gil
  Opal              =  Ore             Potion              100 gil
  Topaz             =  Ore             Eye Drops           100 gil
  Lapis Lazuli      =  Ore             Dead Pepper         400 gil


MADAIN SARI
===========

  Mogshop (Morrison):
  -------------------
  Dagger               320 gil
  Mage Masher          500 gil
  Mythril Dagger       950 gil
  Gladius            2,300 gil
  Poison Knuckles    5,000 gil
  Multina Racket       700 gil
  Golem’s Flute        350 gil
  Pinwheel             200 gil
  Magic Armlet       1,000 gil
  Lamia’s Tiara        800 gil
  Ritual Hat         1,000 gil
  Adaman Vest        1,600 gil
  Magician Cloak     1,850 gil
  Survival Vest      2,900 gil
  Potion                50 gil
  Phoenix Down         150 gil
  Echo Screen           50 gil
  Soft                 100 gil
  Antidote              50 gil
  Eye Drops             50 gil
  Magic Tag            100 gil
  Annoyntment          150 gil
  Tent                 800 gil

DESERT PALACE
=============

  Mogshop (Mojito)
  ----------------
  Diamond Sword   4700 gil   Cross Helm           gil
  Trident         3580 gil   Brigandine           gil
  Mythril Claws   6500 gil   Judo Uniform         gil
  Magic Racket    1350 gil   Gold Armor           gil
  Healing Rod     1770 gil   Potion            50 gil
  Fairy Flute     4500 gil   Hi-Potion        200 gil
  Cypress Pile    3200 gil   Phoenix Down     150 gil
  Silver Fork     7400 gil   Echo Screen       50 gil
  Pinwheel         200 gil   Antidote          50 gil
  Rising Sun       500 gil   Eye Drop          50 gil
  Chimera Armlet  1200 gil   Soft             100 gil
  Egoist’s Armlet 2000 gil   Remedy           300 gil
  Mantra Band     1500 gil   Annoyntment      150 gil
  Dark Hat             gil   Tent             800 gil
  Green Beret          gil   

ESTO GAZA
=========
 
  General Shop:
  -------------
  Gladius         2300 gil   Diamond Gloves  2000 gil
  Zorlin Shape    6000 gil   Venetia Shield  2800 gil
  Diamond Sword   4750 gil   Black Hood      2550 gil
  Flame Saber     5190 gil   Red Hat         3000 gil
  Heavy Lance     4700 gil   Cross Helm      2200 gil
  Scissor Fangs   8000 gil   Judo Uniform    5000 gil
  Magic Racket    1350 gil   Power Vest      7200 gil
  Asura’s Rod     3180 gil   Gold Armor      2950 gil
  Hamelin         5700 gil   Shield Armor    4300 gil
  Cypress Pile    3200 gil   Hi-Potion        200 gil
  Octagon Rod     4500 gil   Magic Tag        150 gil
  Silver Fork     7400 gil   Vaccine          100 gil
  Rising Sun       500 gil   Remedy           300 gil
  Egoist’s Armlet 2000 gil   Annoyntment      150 gil
  N-Kai Armlet    3000 gil   Tent             800 gil
  Jade Armlet     3400 gil

MOUNT GULUG
===========

  Mogshop (Mogtaka):
  ------------------
  Potion             50 gil
  Hi-Potion          200 gil
  Phoenix Down       150 gil
  Echo Screen        50 gil
  Antidote           50 gil
  Eye Drop           50 gil
  Soft               100 gil
  Annoyntment        150 gil
  Magic Tag          150 gil
  Remedy             300 gil
  Tent               800 gil

IPSEN’S CASTLE
==============
  
  Mogshop (Kumool):
  -----------------
  Mage Masher        300 gil   Power Vest     7200 gil
  Iron Sword         660 gil   Gaia Gear      8700 gil
  Mythril Spear     1100 gil   Shield Armor   4300 gil
  Poison Knuckles   5000 gil   Demon’s Mail   5900 gil
  Multina Racket     750 gil   Potion           50 gil
  Mythril Rod        560 gil   Hi-Potion       200 gil
  Lamia’s Flute     3800 gil   Phoenix Down    150 gil
  Oak Staff         2400 gil   Echo Screen      50 gil
  Needle Fork       3100 gil   Antidote         50 gil
  Rising Sun         500 gil   Eye Drops        50 gil
  N-Kai Armlet      3000 gil   Soft            100 gil
  Jade Armlet       3400 gil   Annoyntment     150 gil
  Venetia Shield    2800 gil   Vaccine         100 gil
  Red Hat           3000 gil   Magic Tag       150 gil  
  Golden Hairpin    3700 gil   Tent            800 gil
  Cross Helm        2200 gil
  Diamond Helm      3000 gil

DAGUERREO
=========

  Item Shop:        
  ----------
  Potion             50 gil
  Hi-Potion          200 gil
  Phoenix Down       150 gil
  Echo Screen        50 gil
  Antidote           50 gil
  Eye Drop           50 gil
  Soft               100 gil
  Annoyntment        150 gil
  Magic Tag          150 gil
  Vaccine            100 gil
  Remedy             300 gil
  Tent               800 gil

  Equipment Shop (Disc 3):
  ------------------------
  Mage Masher          500 gil
  Mythril Dagger       950 gil
  Gladius            2,300 gil
  Zorlin Shape       6,400 gil
  Rune Blade         8,900 gil
  Obelisk            6,000 gil
  Tiger Fangs       13,500 gil
  Mythril Racket     2,200 gil
  Asura’s Rod        3,180 gil
  Hamelin            5,700 gil
  Octagon Rod        4,500 gil
  Rising Sun           500 gil
  Bone Wrist           330 gil
  Mythril Armlet       500 gil
  Magic Armlet       1,000 gil
  Chimera Armlet     1,200 gil
  Egoist’s Armlet    2,000 gil
  N-Kai Armlet       3,000 gil
  Jade Armlet        3,400 gil
  Venetia Shield     2,800 gil
  Defense gloves     6,000 gil
  Lamia’s Tiara        800 gil
  Twist Headband     1,200 gil
  Golden Hairpin     3,700 gil
  Coronet            4,400 gil
  Diamond Helm       3,000 gil
  Gaia Gear          8,700 gil
  Demon’s Vest      10,250 gil
  Demon’s Mail       5,900 gil
  Diamond Armor      8,800 gil

  Equipment Shop (Disc 4):
  ------------------------
  Orichalcon        17,000 gil
  Defender           9,340 gil
  Ultima Sword      14,000 gil
  Holy Lance        11,000 gil
  Avenger           16,000 gil
  Kaiser Knuckles   18,000 gil
  Mythril Racket     2,250 gil
  Fork               1,100 gil
  Bistro Fork       10,300 gil
  Rising Sun           500 gil
  Magic Armlet       1,000 gil
  Egoist's Armlet    2,000 gil
  Dragon Wrist       4,800 gil
  Power Wrist        5,100 gil
  Defense Gloves     6,000 gil
  Aegis Gloves       7,000 gil
  Mage's Hat           600 gil
  Lamia’s Tiara        800 gil
  Golden Hairpin     3,700 gil
  Coronet            4,400 gil
  Flash Hat          5,200 gil
  Adaman Hat         6,100 gil
  Platinum Helm      4,600 gil
  Kaiser Helm        7,120 gil
  Demon's Vest      10,250 gil
  Minerva’s Plate   12,200 gil
  Ninja Gear        14,000 gil
  Platina Armor     10,500 gil
  Carabini Mail     12,300 gil
  Dragon Mail       14,000 gil

  Synthesis Shop:
  ---------------
  Angel Bless       =  Mythril Dagger  Gladius            9000 gil
  Sargatanas        =  Gladius         Zorlin Shape      12000 gil
  Cotton Robe       =  Wrist           Steepled Had       1000 gil
  Silk Robe         =  Silk Shirt      Bandana            2000 gil
  Magician Robe     =  Mage Staff      Magician Cloak     3000 gil
  Glutton’s Robe    =  Mythril Fork    Cotton Robe        6000 gil
  White Robe        =  Gaia Gear       Jade Armlet        8000 gil
  Black Robe        =  Gaia Gear       N-Kai Armlet       8000 gil
  Cachusha          =  Magus Hat       Rubber Helm        1000 gil
  Coral Ring        =  Lightning Staff Rod                1200 gil
  Gold Choker       =  Linen Cuirass   Soft               1300 gil
  Magician Shoes    =  Germinas Boots  Bone Wrist         1500 gil
  Barette           =  Needle Fork     Barbut             1800 gil
  Power Belt        =  Glass Buckle    Chain Mail         2000 gil
  Madain’s Ring     =  Bone Wrist      Stardust Rod       3000 gil
  Anklet            =  Gold Choker     Peridot Gem        4000 gil
  Feather Boots     =  Magician Shoes  Phoenix Pinion     4000 gil
  Black Belt        =  Twist Headband  Survival Vest      4000 gil
  Pearl Rouge       =  Moonstone       Elixir             5000 gil
  Promist Ring      =  Chimera Armlet  Ruby               6000 gil
  Battle Boots      =  Feather Boots   Wing Edge          6500 gil
  Rebirth Ring      =  Diamond         Anklet             7000 gil
  Angel Earrings    =  Fairy Earrings  Barette            8000 gil
  Garnet            =  Ore             Remedy              350 gil
  Amethyst          =  Ore             Annoyntment         200 gil
  Peridot           =  Ore             Soft                100 gil
  Sapphire          =  Ore             Antidote            200 gil
  Opal              =  Ore             Potion              100 gil
  Topaz             =  Ore             Eye Drops           100 gil
  Thief Gloves      =  Mythril Armlet  Sargatanas        50000 gil

BRAN BAL
========

  Mogshop (Moorock):
  ------------------
  Dagger            320 gil   Adaman Hat        6200 gil
  Mage Masher       500 gil   Platinum Helm     4600 gil
  Mythril Dagger    950 gil   Demon’s Vest     10250 gil
  Gladius          2300 gil   Minerva’s Plate  12200 gil
  Zorlin Shape     6000 gil   Platina Armor    10500 gil
  Orichalcon      17000 gil   Hi-Potion          200 gil
  Defender         9340 gil   Phoenix Down       150 gil
  Holy Lance      11000 gil   Echo Screen         50 gil
  Avenger         16000 gil   Antidote            50 gil
  Mythril Racket   2250 gil   Eye Drops           50 gil
  Bistro Fork     10300 gil   Soft               100 gil
  Rising Sun        500 gil   Annoyntment        150 gil
  Dragon Wrist     4800 gil   Vaccine            100 gil
  Defense Gloves   6000 gil   Remedy             300 gil
  Coronet          4400 gil   Tent               800 gil
  Flash Hat        5200 gil

LEGENDARY SYNTHESIST (Check Part 1 of the guide. Look at Memoria in Disc 4):
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Robe of Lords     =  White Robe      Black Robe        30000 gil
  Tin Armor         =  Ore             Hammer            50000 gil
  Protect Ring      =  Dark Matter     Rebirth Ring      40000 gil
  Pumice            =  Pumice Piece    Pumice Piece      50000 gil
  Garnet            =  Ore             Remedy              350 gil
  Amethyst          =  Ore             Annoyntment         200 gil
  Peridot           =  Ore             Soft                100 gil
  Sapphire          =  Ore             Antidote            200 gil
  Opal              =  Ore             Potion              100 gil
  Topaz             =  Ore             Eye Drops           100 gil
  Lapis Lazuli      =  Ore             Dead Pepper         400 gil
  Pumice Piece      =  Hammer          Pumice            25000 gil
  Save the Queen    =  Javelin         Silver Gloves     50000 gil
  Phoenix Pinion    =  Phoenix Down    Gysahl Greens       300 gil
  Ether             =  Echo Screen     Vaccine             500 gil


                         =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
                                   FAQs
                         -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Where can I find this Walkthrough/FAQ?

   This walkthrough/FAQ will be updated and posted mainly at 
http://WWW.GAMEFAQS.COM and at VGStrategies.about.com. You can also find an 
unaltered and updated version of this guide at the following sites:

http://www.gamewinners.com
http://surf.to/aaronph
http://www.angelfire.com/rpg/finalfantasy9x/finalfantasy9.html
http://nextff.8m.com
http://www.cheatplanet.com
http://www.gamesdomain.co.uk
http://www.RPGamer.com
http://www.gamespot.com
http://www.gameshark.com
http://www.rpgclassics.com
http://www.angelfire.com/games2/chtournamentcenter/SquareExpo.html
http://www.cheatcc.com
http://www.ff3.com
http://clix.to/gamecasters or
  - http://www.geocities.com/n64gg
http://www.cheatcity.com
http://www.gameinginc.homestead.com/gaminginc.html
http://www.finalfantasyix.f2s.com
http://www.angelfire.com/ri/finalfantasytrilogy
http://eternalvivi.tripod.com/finalfantasy/
http://www.bdgames.net
http://www.happypuppy.com
http://www.fantasysquare.com
http://www.philanime.com
http://www.disc13.com
http://members.nbci.com/fftactix
http://www.supercheats.com
http://www.rpgdreamers.com or
  - http://www.rpgdreamer.com
http://www.everfantasy.net
http://www.geocities.com/finalfantasy993041/www.allcheats.html?977326824940
http://www.geocities.com/kickinit_69_2000
http://www.crystalflame.com
http://lockecole.webjump.com
http://home.rpgvillage.com/scizorw/main[2].html
http://www.geocities.com/ff8_squall2000/
http://www.geocities.com/sfunion2/
http://palaceoftheholyknight.homestead.com/nes.html
http://www.hype.se
http://www.skwerl.net/FForever/new
http://www.angelfire.com/sd/RPGalore
http://www.squaresoftepic.homestead.com/index.html
http://rpgcage.com.homestead/main.htm
http://www.fantasygamer.net
http://www.geocities.com/rpg7654
http://www.angelfire.com/ab4/FF8/Domain
http://www.geocities.com/andrewclegg3/gameFAQs_centrel.html
http://digilander.iol.it/groggyland
http://www.sjel.org
http://www.rydia-shinra.net/ff9.html
http://rpgu.terrashare.com
http://www.gamespecs.com
http://www.geocities.com/fflegendary/
http://drsayis.tsx.org
http://pub18.ezboard.com/bpsxtreme
http://SiteMasters1.homestead.com/MasterSim.html
http://www.andersg.cjb.net
http://silverqueen.cjb.net/
http://action_thriller.tripod.com/generationx9000xf
http://www.finalis.fr.st
http://hometown.aol.com/undertakerrulz22/index.html
http://www.all.at/ffxtreme

Note to webmasters, if your site is listed here, it means someone sent me an 
e-mail requesting for permission to use my guide. If you’re the real 
webmaster and you didn’t request for permission, please tell me.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. How often do you update?

As long as there is a need to update and as long as I have the time to do it 
I always do it right away. I make sure all are up to date. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Where is the best place to level up my characters?

In my experience, I got a lot of EXPs before fighting Garland at Pandemonium. 
You’ll get more than 7000+ EXPs here. Another place (perhaps the best one I 
reach level 90 from level 65 in only 2 hours for Zidane) is the Vile Island 
which is the big island just to the southwest of the Iifa Tree in the Outer 
Continent. You’ll fight the Yan here which will give you 10000+ EXPs (if 4 
characters are alive). The good thing here is that sometimes, they come in by 
2s and 3s, you’ll rack up those Experience points in no time at all. You can 
check Side-Quest #12 at the first part for more info.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. Can Chocobo cross the ocean or rivers just like in FF7?

Yep. Choco (your only Chocobo in the game) will change in color to depending 
on its abilities. Check the Chocobo’s section for more information. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. What will happen if you piss Moguo in the world map?

Nothing, he’ll just tell you to stop it. I tell you, I looked stupid while 
pissing off Moguo.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. When I remove my equipment, the ability is gone. What gives?

You must learn the Ability first. Once you reach the required # of ability 
points (AP), that Ability will be learned and it won’t disappear even after 
you remove the equipment.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. How can I beat Grand Dragon at the World Map after I climbed up the vines 
at Gizamaluke’s Grotto?

Here’s the contribution of Brandon Harwell:
-------------------------------------------

a) There are a few tricks to defeating the Grand Dragons the first and
second time you get a chance to meet them above Gizamaluke's Grotto. 
The first time, during the battle with Gizamaluke, steal an Ice Staff
from him so Vivi can use Blizzara.  Then make sure you have the "LV3
Def-less" ability for Quina.  Go after the Grand Dragons, use Vivi's
focus, and "LV3 Def-less".  (Grand Dragons are Lv.60, HP: 13,206)  If
you're lucky and it doesn't use Thundaga on all your party members, you
can deal 2,000 damage each round with Vivi using Blizzara.  You need
LOTS of Phoenix Down, however, because it can still kill any one party
member in a single hit easily.  Don't bother healing HP though, he'll
always kill you in one hit anyway.

b) Later, while in Treno the first time, use the Rod and Lightning
Staff to get a Coral Ring, and make sure you have LOADS of Gil so you
can win the Reflect Ring at the auction.  After you go back to Zidane's
party, equip one character (Vivi) with the Coral Ring, and that
character will ABSORB THUNDAGA.  Equip the Reflect Ring to another
character, making sure to equip the "Auto-Reflect" ability.  That
character will send Thundaga back at the Grand Dragons for 1,500
damage.  With this strategy, the Grand Dragons are much easier and you
can level up your character in a hurry.  (I gained about 10 levels in 20
minutes.)

c) This is a real dirty trick.  Buy a lot of the equipment you can the
first time you go to Treno, especially from the Synthesis Shop.  Equip a
lot of this stuff to Zidane's party and equip the "Insomniac" ability. 
Get the "Night" spell for Quina from the enemies near Burmecia, and go
after those silly dragons.  Use night *every round* with Quina, and the
Grand Dragons will be out for the count, but DO NOT ATTACK.  (If you
don't use "Night" every single round, he will wake up, and be very
cranky I promise.)   Use Zidane to Steal, use Freya to keep MP up on
Vivi and Quina, and use Focus for Vivi, then hit him with Blizzara over
and over (2,500 damage each turn) until he's dead.  This makes these
enemies REAL EASY.  Nice way to get the mid-30s in levels easily in Disc
2.

Here’s the contribution of Ben Price (stonehnd@dwave.net):

You can use the Level 5 Death to kill the Grand Dragon Instantly. Remember, 
the Grand Dragon is always at level 60. :)

Another Strategy by: rmueller
-----------------------------

I have an almost sure-fire way to kill him easily by the 2nd disk (before one 
goes to the Outer Continent for the first time). Here we go:

Requirements:
1) Have at least three characters learned and activated auto-reflect and the 
last equipped with the reflect ring on and auto-reflect activated (obviously 
one needs to get the reflect ring at the auction in Treno when they first 
visit there- this will take a long time to learn for three people, but its 
worth it for all the trouble).
2) Have everyone learned and activated antibody (since its an easy skill to 
learn, it shouldn't be too hard to do).
3) Have many phoenix downs (I'd say at least thirty to be safe).
That's it! Now onto the strategy...

Make sure all party members activated auto-reflect and antibody and that one 
has at least thirty phoenix downs. During battle, don't do anything with your 
characters, just wait for the dragon to do his attacks and have at least two 
people ready to cast a phoenix down. If the dragon uses poison claw, have one 
of the still-alive members immediately use a phoenix down on the fallen 
victim. Just keep this up during battle and the dragon will eventually kill 
himself with thundaga. For a better understanding of this strategy, let's 
examine the dragon's attacks.

The dragon, as one may know, has only three attacks: poison claw, thundaga, 
and the strong venom attack (I forget its actual name- it inflicts venom 
status on the character).

Poison Claw:
-Description- In this attack, the dragon comes on hard with his claws and 
slashes on character for 700-1000 hit points. Well, I'm afraid this is the 
only attack that he uses that will inevitably kill/damage a party member. The 
only way to combat this attack is to have phoenix downs ready on any of the 
other three unkilled characters. Do not, I repeat Do Not worry about healing 
characters during battle, its a waste of time and the poison claw can 
probably kill a member in one hit anyway.

Venom Attack:
-Description- Here, the dragon spews forth a poisonous mist, inflicting =
venom status on one of the party members. Easy, with antibody equipped on 
everyone, there's no way this attack can do anything to your party. The venom 
status will miss or be guarded against. Also, since this attack does not take 
away any hit points, its harm-less.

Thundaga:
-Description- Uh...the dragon casts the thundaga spell on one or all =
characters in your party (duh).=20
This is it, the reputed grand-dragon-slayer. With auto-reflect activated =
on all characters, this spell will always be reversed to cause massive =
damage on the dragon. If the spell aims for and reflects off only one =
character, the dragon will receive around 1500 hp damage. If the spell =
aims for and reflects off all characters, the dragon deals himself a =
lethal ~6000 hp of damage. So, all one needs is for the dragon to cast a =
universal thundaga two-three times to kill himself! Ah the smell of =
fresh hari-kari in the morning

strategy by: Will (will907@excite.com)
--------------------------------------

Here's another nifty strategy (though it doesn't work as well as the Death 
one, because this one has a chance of missing). Use Quina's Mustard Bomb 
spell on them. It has a chance of missing, but it's less MP than the Death 
spell (for people who have low MP, this could be a good thing).

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
8. Are there any summons in the game? Who can use them?

There are summons/eidolons in this game just as the previous Final Fantasies 
(6/7/8/Tactics). Only Dagger and Eiko can use them though.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
9. What does Eidolon mean?

Mr. Webster defined Eidolon as an unsubstantial image. Meaning, it has no 
physical properties, it’s more like a spirit. In the game, they are the 
spirits of the protectors of Dagger, Eiko and the people of Madain Sari.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
10. Are there any airship/s in the game?

Of course, 3 of them to be exact. The Hilda Garde 1, Hilda Garde 3, and the 
Invincible. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
11. Can I steal more than 1 item from the enemies?

Indeed. Most of the enemies have at least 2 items in their possession that 
are waiting to be stolen. Some have only 1 though. The bosses have a lot of 
neat items and equipments too. Just steal from the enemy/boss until the 
message reads, “The enemy has nothing.”. At Disc 4, you can get the Thief 
Gloves and learn the Master Thief ability to be able to get the rare 
items/equipments from enemies. This explains why you can’t get some of the 
best equipments from bosses. :) Suggestion: Don’t synthesize the Thief Gloves 
at Daguerreo, instead, win it at the Treno Auction house and you’ll get more 
than 65% discount. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
12. I can’t steal some of the items. I tried but to no avail, I still can’t 
get that item/equipment. Can you help?

Well, there’s a success rate in stealing. It determines the probability that 
your character can successfully steal an item/equipments. To boost the 
success rate, equip the Bandit Ability to your stealer. This way, the success 
rate will be increased and you’ll have a bigger chance in stealing. Also, if 
you really want to get ALL items/equipments from bosses (especially at 
Memoria), you need to equip the Thief Gloves and the Master Thief ability. I 
was able to steal from every boss at Memoria using this. :)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
13. Is there a New Game+ Mode here just like in Chrono Trigger and Chrono 
Cross?

Nope. Just like in the previous Final Fantasies, there’ll be no New Game+ for 
this game.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
14. Can something be done to make the summons longer again just as it did 
when you first used it?

Yes. Equip the Pumice Piece to Dagger or Eiko and when they use a Summon, 
you’ll see the full scene of the summon. The Eidolon will damage the enemy 
more as you have the Boost Ability.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
15. Where can I get the Pumice Stone so that I could summon Ark?

Try to find 2 Pumice Pieces. You can get one when you fight Ark. The other 
one is in one of the Chocographs. Then, go to HADES at Memoria and have him 
synthesize the Pumice (not Pieces) that will allow Dagger to summon her most 
powerful Eidolon, Ark.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
16. Where can I get Dead Peppers? What is its use?

You can use the Chocobo to dig the Dead Peppers at Chocobo’s Lagoon or the 
Chocobo Air Garden. It is used to increase the ability for you Chocobo for a 
short period of time. After you get the Red Chocobo (Mountain), you can dig 
for Dead Peppers at the Chocobo’s Forest.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
17. I used a Tent but my character’s HP and MP are not fully restored, what 
gives?

In my observation, when using a Tent, it will restore 1/2 of the total HP of 
the character and a 100 MP only. If you want to restore HP/MP completely, use 
an Inn.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
18. Does the enemies level up just as it was in Final Fantasy 8?

No. The enemies here at a fixed level so you don’t have to worry about the 
level of a particular enemy when you’re at high levels.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
19. How can I acquire more magic stones so that my character can use more 
abilities?

There are no other ways to get more magic stones that during level ups. 
Sometimes, you’ll get 1 additional Magic Stone after a level up and sometimes 
you won’t. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
20. I know a location of a Chocograph. Can I dig in that place even if Choco 
haven’t dug that Chocograph?

You can’t. Choco won’t have any clue as to where the location is without the 
Chocograph. So, you MUST have a Chocograph in order to dig for the treasure.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
21. What are the strongest attacks in the game?

By far the strongest attack in the game is Quina's Limit Glove. If you're at 
1 HP, it does 9999 damage every time, even to monsters with extremely high 
defense (like the Ragtime Mouse, even though 9999 won't kill it).  If you use 
the Rebirth Ring's Auto-Life ability on Quina then kill him, he will be at 1 
HP.  Bombs away!

By: Barubary

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
22. What does Vivi’s Focus do?

Focus increases the ability of Vivi’s Magic. If you cast Focus in Vivi, his 
Black Magic will do greater damage than usual. In the next turn, Vivi’s Magic 
will return to normal strength so, you can use Focus again to increase the 
power of Vivi’s Magic.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
23. I’m at Disc 4 and I can’t find certain equipments namely, Zidane’s Zorlin 
Shape, Freya’s Obelisk, and Steiner’s Rune Blade. Is it possible to get them?

Those 3 items can be bought at Daguerreo only in Disc 3. If you reached Disc 
4 without buying them, you’re out of luck. You can buy those 3 equipments 
anywhere else.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
24. What is the difference between the Phoenix Pinion and the Phoenix Down?

a. Phoenix Pinions cannot be used out of battles. b. Phoenix Pinions sell a 
lot higher at 1,000 Gil. c. Phoenix Pinion allows the summoning of the 
Eidolon Phoenix. Their similarity? Both revive KO’d characters. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
25. How can I make the Chocobo fly?

It’s very easy. Just go to any forest and press the X button. You should see 
Choco fly. The controls are the same as the Airship by the way. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


                         =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
                               ENEMY LIST
                         -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

Here are the enemies that your can find in the game. The bosses are included 
in the walkthrough together with the strategies so I won’t include them here. 
Note that I used the SCAN ability of Dagger myself to get info from these 
enemies. I also included the exact location where you can see the monster. 
Here’s the list in alphabetical order. Note that the N/A are those that are 
impossible to scan.

About the EXP of the enemies, the ones listed below are the TOTAL EXP of the 
enemy not the EXP that you’ll see when 2 or more of your party members 
receive them. Example, you’re fighting the Grand Dragon. If Zidane is the 
only party member alive, he will get ALL 35,208 EXPs! If all 4 of the party 
is alive, 35,208 will be divided into 4 (8,802). That’s all. :)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ABADON                             Type: Insect/Aerial

Level: 58             EXP: 26,376
HP:    12,658          AP: 4
MP:    2,479          Gil: 2,348

Location/s of enemy:  Pandemonium
Item/s after battle:  Ether, Abadon Card, Vaccine
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Vaccine
Attacks:      Thundaga, High Wind, Virus Fly
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Wind
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ABOMINATION                        Type: n/a

Level: 15             EXP: 912
HP:    879             AP: 1
MP:    482            Gil: 388

Location/s of enemy:  Fossil Roo
Item/s after battle:  none
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Hi-Potion, Ore
Attacks:      Fira, Silent Slap
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ADAMANTOISE                        Type: n/a

Level: 31             EXP: 5,096
HP:    3,087           AP: 3
MP:    1,043          Gil: 4,433

Location/s of enemy:  Uaho Island (Chocobo’s Paradise)
Item/s after battle:  Hi-Potion, Potion
Item/s you can steal: Phoenix Down, Hi-Potion, Tent
Attacks:      Heave, Thundara, Earth Shake
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Thunder
Strength/s:   Physical Defense

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
AGARES                             Type: n/a

Level: n/a            EXP: 7,365 w/Gargoyle
HP:    6,000+          AP: 3 w/Gargoyle
MP:    1,500+         Gil: 3,963 w/Gargoyle

Location/s of enemy:  Ipsen’s Castle
Item/s after battle:  none
Item/s you can steal: Ore, Soft, Tent
Attacks:      Rise, Fira, Freeze, Bio
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  unknown
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
AMDUSIAS                           Type: n/a

Level: n/a            EXP: 26,376
HP:    10,000+         AP: 3
MP:    n/a            Gil: 2,316

Location/s of enemy:  Pandemonium
Item/s after battle:  Ether
Item/s you can steal: none
Attacks:      Bio
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ARMSTRONG                          Type: n/a

Level: 33             EXP: 7,148
HP:    4,204           AP: 2
MP:    1,165          Gil: 1,456

Location/s of enemy:  Seaways Canyon
Item/s after battle:  none
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Hi-Potion, Ore
Attacks:      Cannon, Thundara
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ANEMONE                            Type: n/a

Level: 31             EXP: 5,080
HP:    3,586           AP: 2
MP:    1,045          Gil: 2,274

Location/s of enemy:  Qu’s Marsh
Item/s after battle:  none
Item/s you can steal: Tent, Ore
Attacks:      Bad Breath
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Thunder
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ASH                                Type: Demon/Aerial

Level: 66             EXP: 40,328
HP:    21,591          AP: 4
MP:    3,014          Gil: 2,748

Location/s of enemy:  Memoria
Item/s after battle:  Lapis Lazuli
Item/s you can steal: 3 Tents
Attacks:      Reflect, Stop, Snowstorm, Death, Doom
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Wind
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: He’s very fond of counter attacking.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
AXE BEAK                           Type: Beast

Level: 6              EXP: 123
HP:    241             AP: 1
MP:    267            Gil: 224

Location/s of enemy:  Lindblum Plateau
Item/s after battle:  Bomb Card, Potion
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Hi-Potion, Ore
Attacks:      Beak, Glowing Eyes, Thundara
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
AXOLOTL                            Type: n/a

Level: 6              EXP: 105
HP:    211             AP: 1
MP:    266            Gil: 236

Location/s of enemy:  Qu’s Marsh (near Burmecia)
Item/s after battle:  Potion
Item/s you can steal: Phoenix Pinion, Hi-Potion, Potion
Attacks:      Water, Tail, Aqua Breath
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Thunder
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BANDERSNATCH                       Type: Beast

Level: 14             EXP: 786
HP:    623             AP: 2
MP:    447            Gil: 347

Location/s of enemy:  Alexandria
Item/s after battle:  Phoenix Down, Ore, Wyerd Card
Item/s you can steal: Tent, Potion
Attacks:      Rush, Thundara
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BASILISK                           Type: Beast

Level: 6              EXP: 164
HP:    346             AP: 1
MP:    267            Gil: 233

Location/s of enemy:  Suburb (Burmecia)
Item/s after battle:  Potion, Hi-Potion, Soft, Lizard Man Card
Item/s you can steal: Rising Sun, Elixir, Tent
Attacks:      Poison Claw, Venom Breath, Thundaga
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Ice
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BEHEMOTH                           Type: Beast

Level: 71             EXP: 53,168
HP:    24,123          AP: 4
MP:    3,338          Gil: 2,764

Location/s of enemy:  Portal (Memoria)
Item/s after battle:  Phoenix Down, Echo Screen, Ogre Card, Lapis Lazuli
Item/s you can steal: 3 Phoenix Pinions
Attacks:      Heave, Meteor Counter, Strike
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Ice
Strength/s:   Physical Attack

Special Notes: You can inflict Status Effects on Behemoth. Use Mini and 
Silence and the Behemoth will be helpless!

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BLAZER BEETLE                      Type: Insect

Level: 19             EXP: 387
HP:    1,468           AP: 1
MP:    603            Gil: 540

Location/s of enemy:  Lucid Plains
Item/s after battle:  none
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Phoenix Pinion, Hi-Potion
Attacks:      Charge, Hit, Fira
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CACTUAR                            Type: n/a

Level: 30             EXP: 4,208
HP:    1,939           AP: 2
MP:    1,018          Gil: 1,021

Location/s of enemy:  Donna Plains (near Qu’s Marsh near Burmecia)
Item/s after battle:  Hi-Potion
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Tent, Phoenix Down
Attacks:      Confuse, 1,000 Needles
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Fire
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: If you attack while it’s still sunken underground, it will 
counter attack with 1,000 needles.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CARRION WORM                       Type: n/a

Level: n/a            EXP: 328
HP:    1,000+          AP: 1
MP:    n/a            Gil: 319

Location/s of enemy:  Cleyra’s Trunk
Item/s after battle:  Potion, Carrion Worm Card
Item/s you can steal: Tent, Annoyntment
Attacks:      Drain
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CARVE SPIDER                       Type: Insect

Level: 3              EXP: 48
HP:    123             AP: 1
MP:    199            Gil: 124

Location/s of enemy:  Bentini Heights (Treno)
Item/s after battle:  Ore
Item/s you can steal: Ore, Tent, Potion
Attacks:      Antenna, Web, Fire
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CATOBLEPAS                         Type: Beast

Level: 32             EXP: 6,609
HP:    3,727           AP: 2
MP:    1,069          Gil: 1,421

Location/s of enemy:  Seaways Canyon
Item/s after battle:  Hi-Potion
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Phoenix Pinion, Hi-Potion, Soft
Attacks:      Heave, Devil’s Bell, Earthquake, Thundara
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CAVE IMP                           Type: n/a

Level: n/a            EXP: 34
HP:    200+            AP: 1
MP:    n/a            Gil: 118

Location/s of enemy:  Ice Cavern
Item/s after battle:  Phoenix Down
Item/s you can steal: Potion, Phoenix Down
Attacks:      Blizzard, Rusty Knife
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Fire
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CERBERUS                           Type: Beast 

Level: 44             EXP: 15,180  
HP:    6,977           AP: 3
MP:    1,625          Gil: 1,984

Location/s of enemy:  Ipsen’s Castle
Item/s after battle:  Opal
Item/s you can steal: Ore, Tent, Ether
Attacks:      Strike, Flame, Firaga
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHIMERA                            Type: Demon

Level: 67             EXP: 42,783
HP:    21,901          AP: 4
MP:    3,053          Gil: 2,732

Location/s of enemy:  Memoria
Item/s after battle:  Antidote, Phoenix Down
Item/s you can steal: Remedy, Garnet, Vaccine
Attacks:      Venom Breath, Cold Breath, Virus Crunch, Lightning
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Ice
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CLIPPER                            Type: n/a

Level: 7              EXP: 78
HP:    294             AP: 1
MP:    278            Gil: 190

Location/s of enemy:  World Map (near Qu’s March-Gizamaluke)
Item/s after battle:  Ore
Item/s you can steal: Ore, Hi-Potion
Attacks:      Water, Bubbles, Crush
Elemental:    Water
Weakness/es:  Thunder
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CORE (w/SAND GOLEM)                Type: n/a

Level: n/a            EXP: 676
HP:    800+            AP: 2
MP:    n/a            Gil: 589

Location/s of enemy:  Cleyra’s Trunk
Item/s after battle:  same as Sand Golem
Item/s you can steal: Hi-Potion, Ore
Attacks:      Revives the Sand Golem
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   Regeneration

Special Notes: You must defeat the core in order to destroy the Sand Golem.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
CRAWLER                            Type: Insect

Level: 10             EXP: 480
HP:    625             AP: 2
MP:    358            Gil: 323

Location/s of enemy:  Gargan Roo
Item/s after battle:  Crawler Card, Ore
Item/s you can steal: Antidote, Phoenix Pinion, Hi-Potion
Attacks:      Stomach, Claws
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Ice
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DENDROBIUM                         Type: n/a

Level: n/a            EXP: 39
HP:    100+            AP: 2
MP:    n/a            Gil: 99

Location/s of enemy:  Evil Forest
Item/s after battle:  Eye Drops
Item/s you can steal: Tent, Eye Drops, Ore
Attacks:      Wind, Pollen
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Wind
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DRACOZOMBIE                        Type: Dragon/Undead

Level: 24             EXP: 4,304
HP:    2,179           AP: 3
MP:    760            Gil: 941

Location/s of enemy:  Lucid Plains (Madain Sari), Cazedil Plains (Mognet C.)
Item/s after battle:  none
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Hi-Potion, Magic Tag
Attacks:      LV5 Death, Strike, Thundara, Zombie Breath
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Fire, Ice, Holy
Strength/s:   Instant Death

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DRAGONFLY                          Type: Aerial/Insect

Level: 8              EXP: 249
HP:    348             AP: 1
MP:    295            Gil: 307

Location/s of enemy:  Gargan Roo
Item/s after battle:  none
Item/s you can steal: Eye Drops, Tent
Attacks:      Charge, Fira, Buzz
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Ice, Wind
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
DRAKAN                             Type: Demon/Aerial

Level: 30             EXP: 5,692
HP:    3,292           AP: 2
MP:    1,018          Gil: 1,118

Location/s of enemy:  Desert Palace
Item/s after battle:  Phoenix Down, Sapphire
Item/s you can steal: Hi-Potion
Attacks:      Bio, Mind Blast, Freeze, Mustard Bomb, Vanish, Reflect
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Wind
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
EPITAPH                            Type: Stone

Level: n/a            EXP: 0    
HP:    1,000+          AP: 2
MP:    n/a            Gil: 0

Mirrored Character:
EXP: 3,304
Gil: 3,327

Location/s of enemy:  Oeilvert
Item/s after battle:  Hi-Potion, Blazer Beetle Card, Phoenix Down, Peridot
Item/s you can steal: Soft, Phoenix Pinion
Attacks:      Mirror, Gradual Petrify
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Soft
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: This is a weird enemy. If you attack it, it will create a 
mirror image of any of the 8 characters. Example, if your party is Zidane, 
Steiner, Amarant, Freya and the mirror character is Amarant, the Amarant in 
your party will be killed by the mirror. It cannot be avoided. To easily beat 
the Epitaph, use a Soft. It will say “became too soft to live” and it dies. 
For the Mirrored character, just attack it with normal physical attacks. It’s 
HP and MP is exactly the same as the character it mimics.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
FANG                               Type: n/a

Level: N/A            EXP: 23
HP:    100+            AP: 1
MP:    unknown        Gil: 90

Location/s of enemy:  Evil Forest
Item/s after battle:  Potion, Fang Card
Item/s you can steal: Potion
Attacks:      Rush, Fang 
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
FEATHER CIRCLE                     Type: Aerial

Level: 13             EXP: 629
HP:    619             AP: 1
MP:    448            Gil: 378

Location/s of enemy:  Fossil Roo
Item/s after battle:  Mandragora Card
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Hi-Potion, Annoyntment, Ore
Attacks:      Blizzara, Demi
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Thunder, Wind
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
FLAN                               Type: n/a

Level: n/a            EXP: 40
HP:    200+            AP: 1
MP:    n/a            Gil: 110

Location/s of enemy:  Ice Cavern
Item/s after battle:  Potion
Item/s you can steal: Potion, Ore
Attacks:      Blizzard, Head Attack
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Fire
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GARGOYLE                           Type: Stone/Aerial

Level: 44             EXP: 7,365 w/Agares
HP:    6,977           AP: 3 w/Agares
MP:    1,628          Gil: 3,963 w/Agares

Location/s of enemy:  Ipsen’s Castle
Item/s after battle:  none
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Phoenix Pinion, Tent, Hi-Potion
Attacks:      Charge, Break
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Wind/Soft
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: Use a “Soft” on it and it will die at once.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GHOST                              Type: Undead

Level: n/a            EXP: 48
HP:    300+            AP: 1
MP:    n/a            Gil: 378

Location/s of enemy:  Dali (Underground)
Item/s after battle:  Echo Screen, Skeleton Card
Item/s you can steal: Phoenix Pinion, Hi-Potion, Ore, Potion
Attacks:      Thunder, Fire, Osmose
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Fire, Holy
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: You can use Curative items or spells.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GIGAN OCTOPUS                      Type: Aerial

Level: 31             EXP: 6,096
HP:    3,584           AP: 3
MP:    1,094          Gil: 1,840

Location/s of enemy:  Ryuki Shores (Outer Continent)
Item/s after battle:  none
Item/s you can steal: Eye Drops, Ether, Phoenix Down
Attacks:      6 Legs, Blizzaga, Ink
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Thunder, Wind
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GIGAN TOAD                         Type: n/a

Level: 7              EXP: 176
HP:    297             AP: 1
MP:    280            Gil: 288

Location/s of enemy:  Qu’s Marsh
Item/s after battle:  Potion
Item/s you can steal: Ore
Attacks:      Glowing Eyes, Water
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Thunder
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GNOLL                              Type: n/a

Level: 18             EXP: 1,368
HP:    1,375           AP: 1
MP:    586            Gil: 691

Location/s of enemy:  Conde Petie Mountain Path
Item/s after battle:  Sapphire, Mimic Card
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Phoenix Pinion, Hi-Potion
Attacks:      Gnoll Attack, Vanish, Blizzara
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   Water

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GOBLIN                             Type: n/a

Level: N/A            EXP: 23
HP:    100+            AP: 1
MP:    unknown        Gil: 88

Location/s of enemy:  Evil Forest
Item/s after battle:  Goblin Card
Item/s you can steal: Potion
Attacks:      Knife, Goblin Punch
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GOBLIN MAGE                        Type: n/a

Level: 15             EXP: 912
HP:    983             AP: 1
MP:    485            Gil: 1,136

Location/s of enemy:  Lucid Plains (Madain Sari)
Item/s after battle:  none
Item/s you can steal: Ore, Potion
Attacks:      Vanish, Axe, Goblin Punch
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GRAND DRAGON                       Type: Dragon

Level: 60             EXP: 35,208
HP:    13,206          AP: 3
MP:    2,550          Gil: 2,604

Location/s of enemy:  Sacrobless Island (outside Daguerreo), Palmwell Island
                      (near Chocobo Lagoon)
Item/s after battle:  none
Item/s you can steal: Rising Sun, Elixir, Tent
Attacks:      Poison Claw, Venom Breath, Thundaga
Elemental:    Fire
Weakness/es:  Ice
Strength/s:   Physical Attack, Magical Attack, Magical Defense

Special Notes: They are very hard near the beginning of the game after 
Gizamaluke’s Grotto. You can easily beat them at level 50 and above. Use 
Quina’s LV5 Death for an instant death.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GRENADE                            Type: Aerial

Level: 36             EXP: 7,458
HP:    4,685           AP: 1
MP:    1,240          Gil: 1,336

Location/s of enemy:  Mt. Gulug
Item/s after battle:  none
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Tent, Ore
Attacks:      Flame, Cannon, Firaga
Elemental:    Fire
Weakness/es:  Ice, Wind
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GRIFFIN                            Type: Aerial

Level: 16             EXP: 912
HP:    1,470           AP: 2
MP:    602            Gil: 602

Location/s of enemy:  Kognish Shores (Outer Continent)
Item/s after battle:  Peridot
Item/s you can steal: Ore
Attacks:      Aera, Aero, Tail
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Wind
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
GRIMLOCK                           Type: n/a

Level: 30             EXP: 6,610
HP:    3,292           AP: 1
MP:    1,018          Gil: 1,363

Location/s of enemy:  Desert Palace
Item/s after battle:  Echo Screen, Topaz, Troll Card
Item/s you can steal: Echo Screen, Hi-Potion
Attacks:      Silence, The Drop, Counter
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Fire, Ice, Thunder
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: If the top head is Blue, use Magic attacks on it. If it is 
Red, use physical attacks.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
HECTEYES                           Type: Demon/Undead

Level: 51             EXP: 17,096
HP:    9,567           AP: 3
MP:    2,033          Gil: 2,049

Location/s of enemy:  Magdalene Forest (Black Mage Village)
Item/s after battle:  none
Item/s you can steal: Phoenix Pinion, Vaccine, Hi-Potion
Attacks:      Absorb, Hypnotize
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Fire, Holy
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
HEDGEHOG PIE                       Type: n/a

Level: 7              EXP: 120
HP:    295             AP: 1
MP:    281            Gil: 187

Location/s of enemy:  Eunorus Plains
Item/s after battle:  Phoenix Down
Item/s you can steal: Phoenix Pinion, Hi-Potion, Ore
Attacks:      Fat Press, Ram
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Wind
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
HORNET                             Type: Insect/Aerial

Level: 7              EXP: 88
HP:    293             AP: 1
MP:    281            Gil: 174

Location/s of enemy:  Gizamaluke’s Grotto
Item/s after battle:  Potion
Item/s you can steal: Potion
Attacks:      Stinger, Buzz
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Thunder, Wind
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
IRONITE                            Type: Dragon

Level: 11             EXP: 576
HP:    889             AP: 2
MP:    374            Gil: 269

Location/s of enemy:  Suburb (Burmecia)
Item/s after battle:  Phoenix Down, Hi-Potion, Ironite Card
Item/s you can steal: Soft, Hi-Potion
Attacks:      Thundara, Wings, Flame
Elemental:    Wind
Weakness/es:  Ice, Wind
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
JABBERWOCK                         Type: n/a

Level: 30             EXP: 4,674
HP:    3,442           AP: 1
MP:    1,019          Gil: 1,156

Location/s of enemy:  Daines-Horse Basin
Item/s after battle:  Potion, Hi-Potion
Item/s you can steal: Hi-Potion, Ore
Attacks:      Light, Heavy, Earthquake, Aera, Everyone Light
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Thunder Shadow
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
LADY BUG                           Type: Insect/Aerial

Level: 6              EXP: 89
HP:    244             AP: 1
MP:    266            Gil: 193

Location/s of enemy:  Eunorus Plains (near Gizamaluke’s Grotto)
Item/s after battle:  Potion
Item/s you can steal: Phoenix Pinion, Hi-Potion, Tent, Phoenix Down
Attacks:      Fire, Spear
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Wind
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
LAMIA                              Type: n/a

Level: 10             EXP: 204
HP:    994             AP: 2
MP:    358            Gil: 494

Location/s of enemy:  Gizamaluke’s Grotto
Item/s after battle:  Potion
Item/s you can steal: Phoenix Down, Ore
Attacks:      Cure, Entice, Slash
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Thunder
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
LAND WORM                          Type: Insect

Level: 29             EXP: 5,148
HP:    5,296           AP: 3
MP:    997            Gil: 1,316

Location/s of enemy:  Kiera Desert
Item/s after battle:  Hi-Potion, Ore
Item/s you can steal: Phoenix Pinion, Hi-Potion, Ore
Attacks:      Sandstorm, Maelstrom
Elemental:    Earth
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
LIZARD MAN                         Type: n/a

Level: 10             EXP: 214
HP:    589             AP: 1
MP:    359            Gil: 0

Location/s of enemy:  Daines-Horse Basin
Item/s after battle:  Phoenix Down
Item/s you can steal: Tent, Ore
Attacks:      Hatchet
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Ice, Thunder
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MAGIC VICE                         Type: Beast/Human

Level: 7              EXP: 216
HP:    297             AP: 1
MP:    278            Gil: 239

Location/s of enemy:  Suburb (Burmecia)
Item/s after battle:  Bomb Card, Ether
Item/s you can steal: Ether x2, Echo Screen
Attacks:      Magic Hammer, Mug
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MALBORO                            Type: n/a

Level: 57             EXP: 30,576
HP:    11,687          AP: 3
MP:    2,334          Gil: 2,572

Location/s of enemy:  Magdalene Forest (Black Mage Village)
Item/s after battle:  Ore
Item/s you can steal: Vaccine, Ore
Attacks:      Bad Breath, Thundaga
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   Status Effect infliction

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MANDRAGORA                         Type: n/a

Level: 9              EXP: 77
HP:    662             AP: 1
MP:    344            Gil: 595

Location/s of enemy:  Bentini Heights (Treno Forests)
Item/s after battle:  none
Item/s you can steal: Phoenix Pinion, Hi-Potion, Tent, Echo Screen
Attacks:      Blizzara, Chestnut
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Fire
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: sometimes, the Chestnut attack is fatal leaving your character 
with low HP or even KO’d.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MIMIC                              Type: n/a

Level: n/a            EXP: 396
HP:    500+            AP: 1
MP:    n/a            Gil: 777

Location/s of enemy:  Burmecia (Residence)
Item/s after battle:  Ether, Potion
Item/s you can steal: Antidote, Hi-Potion
Attacks:      Call, Eat
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MISTODON                           Type: Undead

Level: 56             EXP: 24,276
HP:    11,434          AP: 2
MP:    2,301          Gil: 2,023

Location/s of enemy:  Quelmiera Shores (Outer Continent)
Item/s after battle:  Peridot, Sand Golem Card, Ether
Item/s you can steal: Hi-Potion, Ore
Attacks:      Head Attack, Mist, Fira
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Fire, Holy
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MOVER                              Type: n/a

Level: n/a            EXP: 7,733
HP:    5,000+          AP: 1
MP:    n/a            Gil: 767

Location/s of enemy:  Pandemonium
Item/s after battle:  Opal
Item/s you can steal: Tent, Vaccine, Opal
Attacks:      Virus Combo, Delta Attack
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: Always comes in 3s

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MU                                 Type: n/a

Level: 2              EXP: 34
HP:    77              AP: 1
MP:    183            Gil: 104

Location/s of enemy:  Norlich Heights (Dali)
Item/s after battle:  Potion, Echo Screen
Item/s you can steal: Potion
Attacks:      Tail
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
MYCONID                            Type: Aerial

Level: 20             EXP: 1,386
HP:    1,572           AP: 1
MP:    584            Gil: 726

Location/s of enemy:  Iifa Tree
Item/s after battle:  Echo Screen
Item/s you can steal: Tent, Eye Drops
Attacks:      Saw, Spore, Blizzara
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Fire, Wind
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
NYMPH                              Type: n/a

Level: 9              EXP: 328
HP:    458             AP: 1
MP:    344            Gil: 303

Location/s of enemy:  Eesistern Coast (island at center of world map)
Item/s after battle:  Potion
Item/s you can steal: Phoenix Pinion, Hi-Potion, Ore, Echo Screen
Attacks:      Fira
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Fire, Shadow
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
OCHU                               Type: n/a

Level: 16             EXP: 2,092
HP:    3,568           AP: 2
MP:    622            Gil: 845

Location/s of enemy:  Conde Petie Mountain Path
Item/s after battle:  none
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Phoenix Pinion, Hi-Potion
Attacks:      Blizzara, Thorn Whip
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Fire
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
OGRE                               Type: n/a

Level: 29             EXP: 5,184
HP:    3,300           AP: 2
MP:    996            Gil: 1,281

Location/s of enemy:  Desert Palace
Item/s after battle:  Hi-Potion, Ogre Card
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Phoenix Pinion, Annoyntment
Attacks:      Knife, Trouble Knife
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
PLANT MINION                       Type: n/a

Level: N/A            EXP: 21
HP:    150+            AP: 1
MP:    unknown        Gil: 91

Location/s of enemy:  Evil Forest
Item/s after battle:  Eye Drops
Item/s you can steal: Eye Drops
Attacks:      Ore, Potion
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Fire
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
PLANT SPIDER                       Type: n/a

Level: n/a            EXP: 22
HP:    80+             AP: 1
MP:    n/a            Gil: 91

Location/s of enemy:  Evil Forest
Item/s after battle:  Fang Card
Item/s you can steal: Potion, Ore, Hi-Potion
Attacks:      Thunder, Tentacle
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Fire
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
PRISON CAGE                        Type: n/a

Level: 2              EXP: 30
HP:    533             AP: 0
MP:    1186           Gil: 435

Location/s of enemy:  Evil Forest
Item/s after battle:  Eye Drops
Item/s you can steal: none
Attacks:      Right Stem, Left Stem, Absorb 
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Fire
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
PYTHON                             Type: n/a

Level: 2              EXP: 10
HP:    75              AP: 1
MP:    184            Gil: 106

Location/s of enemy:  Norlich Heights (Dali)
Item/s after battle:  Phoenix down
Item/s you can steal: Phoenix Pinion, Hi-Potion, Ore
Attacks:      Rapid Fire
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Ice
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
RED DRAGON                         Type: Dragon/Aerial

Level: 36             EXP: 22,376
HP:    8,000           AP: 2
MP:    1,242          Gil: 20,624

Location/s of enemy:  Mt. Gulug
Item/s after battle:  Ether, Sapphire, Abomination Card 
Item/s you can steal: Elixir, Ether, Tent
Attacks:      Twister, Dive, Aerial Slash
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Ice, Wind
Strength/s:   Physical Attacks

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
RING LEADER                        Type: Demon/Aerial

Level: 51             EXP: 18,816
HP:    9,569           AP: 2
MP:    2,030          Gil: 7,472

Location/s of enemy:  Terra
Item/s after battle:  Ifrit Card, Amethyst
Item/s you can steal: Echo Screen, Vaccine
Attacks:      Reflect, Osmose
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Wind
Strength/s:   Magical Attacks

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SAHAGIN                            Type: n/a

Level: 18             EXP: 1,368
HP:    1,375           AP: 1
MP:    585            Gil: 1,026

Location/s of enemy:  Qu’s Marsh (Outer Continent)
Item/s after battle:  none
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Hi-Potion
Attacks:      Water-Gun
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Thunder
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SAND GOLEM (w/CORE)                Type: n/a

Level: n/a            EXP: 676
HP:    500+            AP: 2
MP:    n/a            Gil: 589

Location/s of enemy:  Cleyra’s Trunk
Item/s after battle:  Phoenix Down, Potion, Sand Golem Card, Hi-Potion,
                      Annoyntment
Item/s you can steal: Eye Drops, Hi-Potion
Attacks:      Sandstorm, Counter, Fira
Elemental:    Earth
Weakness/es:  Water
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: You have to defeat the core in order to beat this one.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SAND SCORPION                      Type: n/a

Level: 10             EXP: 399
HP:    526             AP: 1
MP:    360            Gil: 315

Location/s of enemy:  Pinnacle Rocks
Item/s after battle:  Annoyntment, Potion, Sand Scorpion Card
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Antidote, Ore
Attacks:      Claws, Fira
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Ice
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEEKER BAT                         Type: Aerial

Level: 12             EXP: 449
HP:    594             AP: 1
MP:    377            Gil: 366

Location/s of enemy:  Pinnacle Rocks
Item/s after battle:  Hi-Potion, Echo Screen, Wyerd Card
Item/s you can steal: Tent, Eye Drops
Attacks:      Darkness, Absorb, Scratch
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Fire, Wind
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SERPION                            Type: Dragon

Level: 8              EXP: 138
HP:    397             AP: 1
MP:    295            Gil: 184

Location/s of enemy:  Eunorus Plains (Lindblum)
Item/s after battle:  none
Item/s you can steal: Antidote
Attacks:      Stab
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Ice
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SHELL DRAGON                       Type: Dragon

Level: n/a            EXP: 26,376
HP:    15,000+         AP: 4
MP:    n/a            Gil: 2,332

Location/s of enemy:  Pandemonium
Item/s after battle:  Elixir
Item/s you can steal: Elixir, Phoenix Down
Attacks:      Charge, Earth Shake
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   Physical Defense

Special Notes: It has a high physical defense.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SKELETON                           Type: Undead

Level: 8              EXP: 104
HP:    400             AP: 1
MP:    293            Gil: 209  

Location/s of enemy:  Gizamaluke’s Grotto
Item/s after battle:  Phoenix Down, Potion
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Hi-Potion, Ore
Attacks:      Whirl Slash, Thunder
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Fire, Holy
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOLDIER                            Type: Human

Level: n/a            EXP: 400
HP:    400+            AP: 1
MP:    n/a            Gil: 311

Location/s of enemy:  Cleyra’s Trunk, Alexandria
Item/s after battle:  Potion, Hi-Potion, Mythril Sword Card
Item/s you can steal: Phoenix Pinion, Echo Screen, Phoenix Down, Potion
Attacks:      Slash, Blizzara, Escape
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
STILVA                             Type: Demon

Level: 67             EXP: 42,784
HP:    21,906          AP: 4
MP:    3,053          Gil: 2,780

Location/s of enemy:  Portal (Memoria)
Item/s after battle:  Garnet, Tent, Vepal Card, Antidote
Item/s you can steal: 3 Ethers
Attacks:      Sting, Red Clipper, Firaga
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Water
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
STROPER                            Type: Stone

Level: 21             EXP: 2,344
HP:    1,840           AP: 2
MP:    697            Gil: 915

Location/s of enemy:  Iifa Tree
Item/s after battle:  Peridot, Phoenix Down
Item/s you can steal: Phoenix Pinion, Phoenix Down, Peridot, Soft
Attacks:      Silence, Slap, Gradual Petrify
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Fire
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
TIAMAT                             Type: Dragon

Level: 71             EXP: 0
HP:    24,127          AP: 7
MP:    3,338          Gil: 2,906

Location/s of enemy:  Crystal World (Memoria)
Item/s after battle:  Peridot, Remedy
Item/s you can steal: 2 Wing Edges, Ether
Attacks:      Absorb Strength, Absorb MP, Silent Claws, Twister
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Ice
Strength/s:   Physical Attacks

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
TONBERRY                           Type: n/a

Level: n/a            EXP: 13,296
HP:    20,000+         AP: 2
MP:    unknown        Gil: 1,513

Location/s of enemy:  Ipsen’s Castle
Item/s after battle:  none
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Phoenix Pinion, Phoenix Down, Hi-Potion
Attacks:      Everyone’s Grudge, Knife
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  unknown
Strength/s:   magic is useless against it

Special Notes: The knife is an instant kill so try your best to defeat the 
Tonberries as fast as possible. They will take time before reaching you 
though. Also, as soon as they use Knife, they will disappear and you’ll lose 
EXPs.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
TORAMA                             Type: Beast/Demon

Level: 30             EXP: 5,672
HP:    3,292           AP: 2
MP:    1,018          Gil: 1,118

Location/s of enemy:  Desert Palace
Item/s after battle:  Amethyst
Item/s you can steal: none
Attacks:      Electrocute, Blaster
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Water
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
TRICK SPARROW                      Type: Aerial

Level: 5              EXP: 64
HP:    191             AP: 1
MP:    250            Gil: 198

Location/s of enemy:  Bentini Heights (Treno)
Item/s after battle:  Echo Screen
Item/s you can steal: Ore
Attacks:      Beak, Drain
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Wind
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
TROLL                              Type: n/a

Level: 20             EXP: 2,092
HP:    1,469           AP: 1
MP:    623            Gil: 854

Location/s of enemy:  Conde Petie Mountain Path
Item/s after battle:  Troll Card
Item/s you can steal: Tent, Ore
Attacks:      Spear, Blizzara, Solution, Counter
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
TYPE A (Black Mage)                Type: Humanoid

Level: n/a            EXP: 114
HP:    400+            AP: 1
MP:    n/a            Gil: 199

Location/s of enemy:  Gizamaluke’s Grotto
Item/s after battle:  Potion
Item/s you can steal: Tent, Phoenix Down
Attacks:      Fire, Thunder, Blizzard
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   Magical Attack

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
TYPE B (Black Mage)                Type: Humanoid

Level: n/a            EXP: 372
HP:    500+            AP: 1
MP:    n/a            Gil: 321

Location/s of enemy:  Cleyra Settlement
Item/s after battle:  Potion
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Hi-Potion, Ore
Attacks:      Fira, Blizzara, Thundara
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   Magical Attack

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
TYPE C                             Type: Humanoid

Level: 13             EXP: 628
HP:    623             AP: 1
MP:    447            Gil: 336

Location/s of enemy:  Alexandria
Item/s after battle:  Phoenix Down
Item/s you can steal: Tent, Potion
Attacks:      Strike, Fira, Blizzara, Thundara
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   Magical Attack

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
VEPAL                              Type: Aerial

Level: 34             EXP: 4,825
HP:    4,363           AP: 1
MP:    1,188          Gil: 1,270

Location/s of enemy:  Quelmiera Shores (Outer Continent)
Item/s after battle:  Hi-Potion, Vepal Card, Echo Screen
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Phoenix Pinion, Hi-Potion
Attacks:      Freeze, Body Ram, Blizzaga
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Fire, Wind
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
VEPAL #2                           Type: Aerial

Level: 35             EXP: 6,932
HP:    4,622           AP: 1
MP:    1,214          Gil: 1,266

Location/s of enemy:  Mt. Gulug
Item/s after battle:  Phoenix Down
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Phoenix Pinion, Hi-Potion
Attacks:      Lava Gun, Scratch, Body Ram
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Ice, Wind
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
VETERAN                            Type: Demon/Aerial

Level: 44             EXP: 3,795
HP:    6,972           AP: 3
MP:    1,627          Gil: 1,971

Location/s of enemy:  Memoria, Ipsen’s Castle
Item/s after battle:  Ether, Topaz
Item/s you can steal: Phoenix Pinion, Ether, Hi-Potion
Attacks:      Roulette
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Water, Wind, Holy
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: Often times, its roulette attack backfires at him. :)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
VICE                               Type: n/a

Level: n/a            EXP: 48
HP:    300+            AP: 2
MP:    n/a            Gil: 128

Location/s of enemy:  Dali (Underground)
Item/s after battle:  none
Item/s you can steal: Potion, Echo Screen
Attacks:      Steal, Escape
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  none
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
WHALE ZOMBIE                       Type: Undead, Aerial

Level: 32             EXP: 6,608
HP:    3,738           AP: 3
MP:    1,060          Gil: 1,528

Location/s of enemy:  Ryuki Shores (Outer Continent)
Item/s after battle:  Hi-Potion
Item/s you can steal: Magic Tag, Antidote
Attacks:      Fin, Ultra Sound Wave, Zombie Powder
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Fire, Thunder, Wind, Holy
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
WORM HYDRA                         Type: Dragon

Level: 37             EXP: 8,008
HP:    4,846           AP: 3
MP:    1,268          Gil: 1,345

Location/s of enemy:  Norlich Heights (Dali)
Item/s after battle:  none
Item/s you can steal: Antidote, Hi-Potion
Attacks:      Venom Breath, Aero Breath, Cold Breath, Flame
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Ice
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
WRAITH                             Type: Undead/Aerial

Level: 36             EXP: 8,480
HP:    4,686           AP: 1
MP:    1,239          Gil: 1,500

Location/s of enemy:  Mt. Gulug
Item/s after battle:  Opal, Topaz
Item/s you can steal: Hi-Potion, Ore
Attacks:      Firaga, Blizzaga, Thundaga, Devil’s Candle
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Fire, Wind, Holy
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
WYERD                              Type: n/a

Level: n/a            EXP: 44
HP:    150+            AP: 1
MP:    n/a            Gil: 116

Location/s of enemy:  Ice Cavern
Item/s after battle:  Potion, Ether
Item/s you can steal: Potion, Phoenix Down, Tent
Attacks:      Blizzard, HP Switching
Elemental:    Ice
Weakness/es:  Fire
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
YAN                                Type: n/a

Level: 72             EXP: 42,672
HP:    19,465          AP: 2
MP:    3,378          Gil: 4,436

Location/s of enemy:  Vile Island
Item/s after battle:  Phoenix Down, Hi-Potion
Item/s you can steal: Elixir, Ore
Attacks:      Float, Comet, Snort, Aera
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Shadow
Strength/s:   Ultra Strong Attacks

Special Notes: The Yan is the best monsters to gain EXP with. Although, even 
at high levels, you might have trouble with them. They always counter attack 
your move. Sometimes, the Yan will use the very annoying Snort attack. It 
will literally blow one of your party member out of the battle. So, try to 
kill the Yan as fast as possible. Use Odin and most of the time, it will kill 
the Yan instantly. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ZAGHNOL                            Type: Beast

Level: 16             EXP: 1,260
HP:    1,189           AP: 2
MP:    499            Gil: 546

Location/s of enemy:  Pinnacle Rocks, Outer Continent
Item/s after battle:  Eye Drops, Ether, Zaghnol Card
Item/s you can steal: Tent, Ether, Ore
Attacks:      Electrocute, Heave, Thundara
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Water
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ZEMZELETT                          Type: Aerial

Level: 20             EXP: 2,092
HP:    1,571           AP: 2
MP:    625            Gil: 889

Location/s of enemy:  Forest inside Black Mage Village
Item/s after battle:  Eye Drops
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Hi-Potion, Ore
Attacks:      Aero, Rainbow Wind
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Wind
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: none

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ZOMBIE                             Type: Undead

Level: 19             EXP: 1,444
HP:    973             AP: 1
MP:    603            Gil: 708

Location/s of enemy:  Iifa Tree
Item/s after battle:  Magic Tag, Soft, Zombie Card
Item/s you can steal: Ether, Tent, Magic Tag
Attacks:      Strike, Melt
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Fire, Holy
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: It sometimes use it’s suicide attack, which is “Melt”, when 
it’s HP is in critical condition.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
ZUU                                Type: Aerial

Level: n/a            EXP: 318
HP:    600+            AP: 2
MP:    n/a            Gil: 384

Location/s of enemy:  Cleyra’s Trunk
Item/s after battle:  Phoenix Down, Potion, Ether
Item/s you can steal: Phoenix Pinion, Hi-Potion, Ore, Potion
Attacks:      Swallow, Fira
Elemental:    none
Weakness/es:  Wind
Strength/s:   none

Special Notes: Zuu’s Swallow ability will remove one of your characters in 
battle just like the Snort Ability of the Yan.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------


                         =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
                              GAMEPLAY TIPS
                         -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

These are just simple strategies that will help you in the game. You can add 
in your own strategy just e-mail it to me and I’ll credit it to you. :)

1. When you see an item shop and you if you have money, don’t hesitate to buy 
Healing Items such as Potions, Phoenix Downs and Ethers. You’ll need them 
especially during the early parts of the game.

2. Equip only the abilities that you need. You don’t have to equip all of 
your Abilities as your Magic Stones are limited. Choose only the abilities 
that will make you stronger and those that will protect you from certain 
attacks.

3. Know your enemy. Try to know what element your enemy is affiliated with 
and attack him/her/it with the opposite element type. This will damage 
him/her/it more and will save you time and resources.

4. Take advantage of your enemies. If you can access the menu, try to use the 
Ability specially designed for that type of enemy. I.e. Use Bug Killer 
Ability when you’re fighting bugs. This will increase the damage that you 
inflict on the enemy.

5. Whenever there’s a Moogle, always save your game. You’ll never know if a 
very strong enemy lurks ahead.

6. If you can, try to steal items/equipments from the different enemies 
especially the bosses. Bosses often times carry neat items.

7. The level of your character is not enough to beat enemies. Equip the most 
powerful items if possible. Once you’re in a new town/village, buy new 
equipments to make your characters stronger.

8. If you see Stiltzkin, talk to him. You might be able to buy a set of items 
for a cheap price.

9. You can have multiple targets when using magic. Press the L1 Button and 
you’ll be able to use a Magic that affects all your enemies or a Magic that 
cures your entire party. Applicable Magic, Elemental Magic (Fire, Fira, 
Firaga, Cure, Cura, etc.)

10. Vivi’s magic can be amplified up to 4 times. Have everyone equipped with 
the Auto-Reflect ability. Now, when the battle begins, have Vivi cast any 
Black Magic attack you want to all of your party members (remember to use the 
L1 Targeting). The Black Magic will be reflected on the enemy 4 times. :)

11. don't sell your older armor, weapons, or accessories because you never 
know when you might be able to "Synth" them.


                         =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
                              FANTASY TRIVIA
                         -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Seeing that this will be the last for the Playstation, I think square 
intentionally put a lot of things similar to previous square games (not only 
the Final Fantasy series). Here are those similarities. They need not be 
exact events/persons but just a resemblance of some sort.

1. The idea of combining equipments, creating a more powerful one, is similar 
to the idea of Assembling weapons in Vagrant Story. This is also seen in 
Final Fantasy 8 and in Chrono Cross. Take note that this is introduced in 
Final Fantasy 4 and 5. 

2. I remember the name Mogli (Mogri), one of the Moogles, is also the name of 
the Summon in Final Fantasy Tactics. Kumop was one of the moogles in FF6.

3. Tetra Master or the idea of Card Gaming using monster and character cards 
is similar to the Triple Triad in Final Fantasy 8 as well as the Card game in 
Xenogears.

4. The song played by Baku and his band in the Theater Ship is the same as 
the song during Rufus’ Welcoming Parade in Final Fantasy 7.

5. The Elemental Magic in Final Fantasy IX uses the same pattern as Final 
Fantasy 8. Fire, Fira, Firaga. Blizzard, Blizzara, Blizzaga. Etc... Although 
this pattern is seen from Final Fantasy 1 (Japanese version), it was 
translated to Fire1, Fire2, Fire3, etc. 

6. Don’t you think that Zidane is a cross between Cloud and Squall? Cloud’s 
height and hair color with Squall’s face. Except the seriousness? Zidane is 
the exact opposite of the two in terms of attitude. And Garnet is ALSO a 
cross between Tifa and Rinoa in the same respect?

7. The battle music is very similar to the battle music in Final Fantasy 6 
and the Battle Music against Ultimecia’s final form in Final Fantasy 8. The 
Victory Fanfare is exactly the same as in Final Fantasy 5 and is also like 
the ones in the Final Fantasy 3. 

8. Enemy Type Specific Abilities such as Bug Killer, Man Eater, etc. has the 
same idea as the type of character in Vagrant Story.

9. A LOT of Abilities from previous games have been brought back such as 
Auto-Potion (FFT,FF3,FF8), Chakra (FFT,FF5,FF3), etc. Also included is 
Freya’s skill, Jump (FF3,FF4,FFT).

10. The feeling of having Beatrix in your party is just as exciting as having 
Orlandu in Final Fantasy Tactics and General Leo of Final Fantasy 6. They’re 
so damn strong! It also the same feeling for Celes of FF6.

11. Beatrix uses ClimHazzard just as Cloud did in FF7. She also uses Shock, 
which is General Leo’s move in Final Fantasy 6. 

12. Chocobo footprints in the world map are also included in Final Fantasy 7. 
You can get Chocobos in this area on FF7 and this one, the difference is the 
way to catch one. 

13. Shiva and Ramuh were always there since Final Fantasy 3j. Except that 
Ramuh was replaced by Quezacotl in Final Fantasy 8. 

14. You’ll see an old man named ‘Locke’ in the Business District at Lindblum

15. Cid appeared again! This time, he’s back in the Airship business. 
Remember that Cid built the Airship in FF7. But in FF8 Cid is just the 
Headmaster of Balamb. He also appeared Final Fantasy 2, 3, 4 where he built 
airships. And as a scientist in Final Fantasy 6. There’s also a Cid in Final 
Fantasy Tactics. Orlandu. He’s also called Thunder God Cid.

16. There’s a reference to Freya’s “Kain’s Spear” weapon in Final Fantasy 4. 
His name is Cain and is a dragoon in FF4. There is a Dragon Knight named Kain 
in FF2.

17. Also in the Final Fantasy Trivia section, Maduin(Madeen) is Terra's(FF6) 
father in FF6.  Also the world of Terra is named after Terra(FF6) and also 
Terra the Sage in FF4(Japanese Version), and Tellah in the FF2 US version.

18. The name of Gaia is from other Squaresoft RPG's (Legend of Gaia, Secret 
of Gaia) it is also referred to as the Earth itself. It is also a town in 
Final Fantasy 1.

19. The Chocobo melody is the same in every FF that has a Chocobo- just the
STYLE is different.  The tracks are always called ____ de Chocobo.  For
instance, Techno De Chocobo, or Aloha de Chocobo, Mods de Chocobo, Cinco de 
Chocobo, Electric de Chocobo, Waltz de Chocobo.

20. Moogles can be found in almost every Final Fantasy game. In Final Fantasy 
8, you can only see the with a Pocketstation. But, there can’t be seen in 
FF1.

21. Zidane and Locke are similar in some ways. Their job class is Thief. They 
are both Main Characters. And both have big heart in helping other people. 

22. The item menu and equipment menu is really look-a-like with FF5 and... 
kinda like FF6 too. Those bluish tone with white outline of "classic color" 
is from FF5 and FF4.

23. Quina’s Blue Magic is like the Enemy Skills in FF7 as well as the Blue 
Magic of Quistis in FF8. There are also Blue Magic in FF5 and FF6 (Lores)

24. The graphics from Boco the Chocobo, Airship, and Namingway come directly 
from FF4

25. There is a Ragnarok (either a summon, weapon, item, or vehicle) in almost 
every Final Fantasy.

26. There are some monsters from other Final Fantasy games.  Malboros (All 
FF's); Stilvas(FF7); Iron Giants(FF7) and Ochu(FF8 and FF7) are only some of 
these.

27. Ultimate weapon (equipment, not the monster) is in every 3D Final 
Fantasy. 

28. Save the Queen is Quistis’ Ultimate Weapon in FF8. It is also one of the 
swords of Agrias in Final Fantasy Tactics.

29. The names of the two guys who work at the Lindblum Synthesis Shop are the 
same as the two guys who work at the weapons department of the N.Y.P.D. in 
Parasite Eve, Wayne and Torres.

30. The name Garland is used in the 1st Final Fantasy (He was the first 
boss).

31. The Gladius is also a dagger in FF6 (It was called the Gradius).

32. The Wing Edge was a weapon for Locke in FF6.

33. The Antlion is also FF4. And it was also referred to as "harmless" but 
attacked you anyway.

34. There is a key item called "Rat's Tail". There is a Rat's Tail in the FF1 
and in FF4.

35. The Ultima Weapon, the best weapon for Zidane, is also the best weapon 
for Cloud in FF7.

36. There is also an Airship Invincible in FF3j and the Invincible Airship in 
Chrono Cross.

37. Whenever there are dwarfs in Final Fantasy they say "Lali Ho!" (FF3j, 
FF4), "Tally Ho!" (FF5) or "Rally Ho!" (FF9-Conde Petie).

38. The white mage suit of Garnet in the beginning as she runs away is very 
familiar (all white mages wear the red/white outfit).

39. If you look at the beautiful/strange/??? potions the spell is by
Matoya, the witch from FF1 who needs the crystal ball

40. Hilda, the name of Cid's wife and that is also the name of the airships 
that can fly without the mist (Hilda Garde 1 and 2) is also the name of the 
leader of the rebel army in FF2j.

41. Talking about the Adamant, it's mentioned on FF9 as the Adaman Vest, it's 
also very important for the series in other two games. FF4, I already said 
how, and in FF1, where you had to find it in order for the blacksmith to 
create the Xcaliber (which is Excalibur with a smaller name due to the lack 
of memory to write it full). that is the second strongest weapon in the game, 
just after the Masamune (another thing that have always been on the series... 
The strongest weapon in FF1 and FF2j, and the second strongest from FF3j and 
on, losing its place to the Ragnarok, that didn't 
existed in the previous games in any way).

42. Vivi looks exactly like the traditional Black Mages of the FF series.  
You know, they can be seem in FF1, FF3j, FF4, FF5 and, maybe on FF Tactics 
too, but the one he resembles the most are the ones from FF1.

43. You know the Gysahl Greens, that you use to call chocobos on the 
footsteps (and also to summon them on FF8 and to feed them in FF7)? It's 
named after a town of FF3j... It was a town of chocobo raisers.

44. If you check the 'Unusual Potion' on the key item menu, it'll say 
something and then say it's from the 'Book of Matoya'. Matoya is a witch 
from FF1, and his cave, named Matoya's Cave, is one of the most famous 
places of FF1.

45. Some of Zidane's weapons (The Ogre, Sargatanas) look just like Serge's 
sword from Chrono Cross

46. The song at the end of the credits is just like the ones in FF7 and FF8. 
And the background melody while the “The End” is shown is the same as the 
themes from FF2, FF4, FF6, FF7 which are titled, “The Prelude”. 

47. In the play of Tantalus, Marcus will say “No Cloud or Squall can hinder 
us”. An obvious reference to Cloud and Squall. Although Cloud means literally 
the clouds and Squall, which means Storm.

48. The background music at Mognet Central is a modified version of the 
Moogle theme from FF6.

49. "I remember someone with pointy hair who had a sword like that", Zidane 
refers to Cloud with the Buster Sword.

50. Kuja kicking Garland off the cliff was deja vu of Kefka kicking Gestahl 
off the cliff in ff6j.

51. The story you have to tell Ramuh to get him (after you've found him 5 
times), it's a part of FF2j, where you have to ask for Josef's help to enter 
the Ice Cave and get the Goddess Bell. Without it, you couldn't enter the 
Kashuon castle and get the Sun Flame to destroy the Baramekain Empire's 
Airship. By the end of this quest, the group is all trapped by Borgan, an ex-
member of the rebels that betrayed them and allied with the empire, and Josef 
saves everyone, but dying to do that.

52. The Stellazzio story is almost the same as the Zodiac Brave Story in 
Final Fantasy Tactics. 

53. The four bosses you have to fight in memoria are EXACTLY the same as the 
four fiends of FF1. Lich of earth, Kraken of water, Tiamat of wind, and that 
Maliris. Correction, Maliris isn’t a translation. Maliris is Maririsu in the 
Japanese Version. :) He looks like Kary though.

There are also there Four fiends in FF4j! They are Rubicant of Fire, Kainazzo 
of Water, Valvalis of Wind and Milan of Earth.

54. Necron’s Grand Cross is also the attack of the last boss in FF1, 
NeoExDeath. 

55. All Final Fantasies have Chocobos.

56. The victory fanfare is actually the same in ALL ff's! There are some 
differences though.

57. Remember Priscilla from FF7? There’s also a Pricilla in Lindblum Business 
District.

58. There is an item called Asura's Rod which is a weapon for Garnet I think. 
Well, "ASURA" was the name of Leviathan's wife in FF4j and back then they 
were the King and Queen of the "Summoned Monsters" (GFs were called Summoned 
Monsters back in FF4) Asura was a 3 headed Goddess in FF4j whom you had to 
defeat in order to "earn" her services as a summoned monster. When summoned, 
the effect was random depending on which head she decided to use. Her first 
head, a grotesque, evil looking dark one, would cast heal on all your party 
members(lame), the 2nd one, a stern, motherly looking one, would cast Cure2 
or Cure3 on your party. The third one was a beautiful looking young maiden 
which would cast Cure4(Full Cure!) on your whole party.

59. The name of the item to learn specific abilities in Final Fantasy 8, 
Example: Rosetta Stone- learned Ability X4, is the same as some name of 
the Armors, Weapons, and Accessories in FF9.

60. There are two things you buy in ff9 in auction house: Doga's artifact and 
Une's mirror. Doga was a powerful mage who upgraded the airship. Une was a 
dreamer who guides your way to get ship Invincible! Doga and Une sacrificed 
themselves to give two keys to the final dungeon (you have to fight them by 
the way), they were in ff3j.

61. The old man who gives you the Excalibur, gives a reference of Gogo. The 
Gogo in FF VI is the one who can mimic other party members' moves. In FF IX, 
he is a doll maker. Both of them have similarity, which is mimic. Gogo of FF 
VI mimic other's move, and Gogo of FF IX mimic other's appearance in his 
dolls.

62. Doesn't the Desert Palace remind you of the Ancient Castle in FF VI ? 
Both of them in underground. And the Ancient Castle is near the desert area.

63. The graphics when Vivi casts Osmose, resembles the Draw Ability in Final 
Fantasy VIII.

64. In FF 1, The Cornelia Kingdom Queen's name is Jane and the princess' name 
is Sara. In FF IX, Garnet's real name is Sarah, and her mother's name is 
Jane.

65. The princess' name in "I want to be your canary" is Cornelia, which same 
as the kingdom's name of FF 1.

66. We see tents in both FF IX and FF VI when our characters use tent in save 
point.

67. The tutors of both FF VI and FF IX are moogles.

68. The optional boss Tantarian has two forms; one of the is a book. That 
seems a lot like the boss in FF6 (I forget it's name) right when you get Relm 
back in the World of Ruin.

69. Armarant's throwing weapons (Pinwheel and Rising Sun) are from FFVIII 
(Rinoa has them) and FFVII (Yuffie Uses them).

70. The name of the Eidolon, Fenrir, was also use as Citan’s Omnigear in 
Xenogears.

71. If you go to the Inn at Conde Petie, you'll see two fountains and stuff. 
Come near it to a "!" mark appear. Press X and some of the guys there will  
say something like "There's water that can recover you" or something like 
that. Well, that's a reference to FF3j, on the game there were those 
fountains in lots of places, exactly that way, on in from of another, on of 
them to heal you, and the other to revive any party member that is dead by 
the moment.

72. The background music of FF9's Gulug Volcano is taken from FF1's Gurgu 
Volcano. 

73. There is a small shop called Porom's doll shop before Lindblum is 
attacked, an obvious reference to Porom from FF2.


                         =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
                              MELODIES OF LIFE
                         -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Here’s the lyrics for the song, Melodies of Life.
-------------------------------------------------

Alone for a while I've been searching through the dark
For traces of the love you left inside my lonely heart
To weave by picking up the pieces that remain,
Melodies of life. Love's lost refrain

Our paths they did cross, though I cannot say just why
We met, we laughed, we held on fast, and then we said goodbye
And who'll hear the echoes of stories never told
Let them ring out loud till they unfold
In my dearest memories, I see you reaching out to me
Though you're gone, I still believe that you can call out my name

A voice from the past, joining yours and mine
Adding up the layers of harmony
And so it goes, on and on. Melodies of Life, 
to the sky beyond the flying birds, forever and beyond

So far and away, see the bird as it flies by
Gliding through the shadows of the clouds up in the sky
I've laid my memories and dreams upon those wings
Leave them now and see what tomorrow brings
In your dearest memories, do you remember loving me
Was it fate that brought us closer and now leaves me behind

A voice from the past, joining yours and mine.
Adding up the layers of harmony
And so it goes, on and on
Melodies of life,
To the sky beyond the flying bird, forever and on

If I should leave this lonely world behind,
Your voice will still remember our melody
Now I know we'll carry on
Melodies of Life, come circle round and grow deep in our hearts
as long as we remember


The Japanese lyrics and the translation of the Japanese lyrics of
'Melodies Of Life' are done by Kaze Yagami <yagami@pacific.net.sg>
and is borrowed from Yee Seng Fu’s Side Quests and Secrets Guide.

Melodies Of Life [Japanese]
---------------------------

Ate mo naku   Samayotteita
Te ga kari mo naku sagashi tsuzuketa
Anata ga kureta omoide wo
Kokoro wo iyasu uta ni shite

Yakusoku mo suru koto mo naku
Kawasu kotoba mo kimetari mo sezu
Dakishime   Soshite tashikameta
Hibi wa nido to kaeranu

Kioku no naka no te wo furu anata wa
Watashi no na wo yobu koto ga dekiru no?

Afureru sono namida wo
Kagayaku yuuki ni kaete
Inochi wa tsuzuku
Yoru wo koe
Utagau koto no nai ashita e to tsuzuku

Tobu tori no mukou no sora e
Ikutsu no kioku azuketa darou
Hakanai kibou mo yume mo
Todokanu basho ni wasurete

Meguriau no wa guuzen to ieru no?
Wakareru toki ga kanarazu kuru no ni

Kieyuku unmei de mo
Kimi ga ikiteiru kagiri
Inochi wa tsuzuku
Eien ni
Sono chikara no kagiri   Doko made mo

Watashi ga shinou to mo
Kimi ga ikiteiru kagiri
Inochi wa tsuzuku
Eien ni
Sono chikara no kagiri
Doko made mo tsuzuku

Melodies Of Life [Translation]
------------------------------
Wandered about without a destination
I searched on and on without a support
The memories that you gave me became a healing song to my heart

No promises were made then
No exchange of words are fixed too
Those days when we embraced and affirmed
Shall never return again

The picture of you waving hands in my memories
I can still hear you calling out my name

These tears that overflow shall become shining courage
Life will go on
Passing through the night
Continuing towards a doubtless tomorrow

Towards the sky where the soaring birds are
Various memories I shall probably leave
Those fruitless hopes and dreams
I shall forget them somewhere where I can't reach

Can a chanced meeting be called "by chance"
When the time that two must part will definitely come?

Even if it is a fate to fade
As long as you live
Life will go on
Forever   As long as that strength remains   Wherever it may be

Even if I shall die
As long as you live
Life will go on
Forever   As long as that strength remains
Goes on wherever it may be


For any corrections, feel free to e-mail me. :) Also, you can hear this song 
if you want. Just go to my Home Page and go to the Media Station in the Music 
Section. 


                         =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
                            SOUNDTRACK SONG LIST
                         -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

This are all the songs, in 4 discs, included in the Original Sound Track of 
this game.

Disc 1                               Disc 2
------                               ------
1 – The Place I’ll return to someday 1 – Cid’s Theme
2 – Forgotten Memory in the storm    2 – One Problem Settled...
3 – Strategy Conference              3 - Lindblum
4 – Sky Above Alexandria             4 – Song of Memory
5 – Vivi’s Theme                     5 – Hunter Chance
6 – Feel my Blade                    6 – Qu’s Marsh
7 – Vamo’alla Flamenco               7 – Quina’s Theme
8 – Search for the Princess          8 – Aloha de Chocobo
9 – The Jesters of the Moons         9 – Ukele le Chocobo
10 – Steiner’s Theme                 10 – Freya’s Theme
11 – Prima Vista Band                11 – Boundary South Gate
12 – Eye Catching                    12 – Aerial Battle
13 – Tonight                         13 – Kingdom of Bulmecia
14 – Your Warmth                     14 – Forgotten Face
15 – Fake Love                       15 – Kuja’s Theme
16 – Queen of the Abyss              16 – Mystery Sword
17 – Stirring the Forest             17 – The City that never sleeps - Treno
18 – Battle 1                        18 – Tantarus Theme
19 – Fanfare                         19 – Immoral Rhythm
20 – Memory of That Day              20 – Garnet’s Theme
21 – Battle 2                        21 – Gargant Rul
22 – Game Over                       22 – Cleyra Stem
23 – Run!                            23 – Cleyra Settlement
24 – Rest                            24 – Eternal Harvest
25 – Crossing the Knoll              25 – Heaven Distress
26 – Ice Cavern                      26 - Extraction
27 – Border Village – Dali
28 – Them in the Sunset
29 – Steiner’s Stealth
30 – Limited Time
31 – Zidane’s Theme
32 – Black Waltz
 
Disc 3                               Disc 4
------                               ------
1 – Ambush Attack                    1 – Airship - Hildagaly
2 – Loss of Me                       2 – Secret Library - Daguerreo
3 – Fossil Rul                       3 – Ipsen’s Heritage
4 – Mountain Pass – Conde Petit      4 – The 4 Mirrors
5 – Black Mage Village               5 – Consecutive Battles
6 – The Ungrasped Memory             6 – Terra
7 – Ceremony before the Gods         7 – Soulless Village - Branbul
8 – Eiko’s Theme                     8 – Castle Where Time Froze-Pandemonium
9 – Ruins of Madain Sari             9 – You’re not Alone!
10 – Wall of Sacred Beasts           10 – Dissipating Sorrow
11 – Iifa Tree                       11 – The Rebirth of the Evil Mist
12 – Salamander’s Theme              12 – Scurmish of the Silver Dragons
13 – Footsteps of Desire             13 – The Memory Place
14 – We are Thieves!                 14 – Crystal World
15 – The Slew of Love Letters        15 – The Dark Messenger
16 – Quadmist                        16 – Last Battle
17 – Moogle Theme                    17 – Bittersweet Romance
18 – The Thing I Must Protect        18 – Hidden Lips
19 – The Chosen Summoner             19 – Wanting to be your Bird
20 – Janitor of Time                 20 – Didn’t Capture the Hearts of Both
21 – Oeilvert                        21 – Towards That Gate
22 – A Fleeting Past                 22 – Melodies of Life – Final Fantasy
23 – Turning Frog and that Scoundrel 23 – Prelude
24 – Sacred Grounds – Esto Gaza      24 – Coca-Cola TV Commercial 1
25 – Gulgur Volcano                  25 – Coca-Cola TV Commercial 2
26 – The Heart and Melting Magic     26 – Melodies of Life (Layers of Time)
                                          Acapella Version


                         =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
                                OTHER STUFF
                         -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-        

Now, I’m bringing back the other Stuff Section, which I also included in my 
Chrono Trigger guide. This is mainly to ease the seriousness of the gamers in 
playing the game. We know that some people play games seriously (like me, 
sometimes), that they do not sleep just to see what happens next and what 
should they do to get this or that. I wanted to add these so that we can also 
get a different perspective of the game, it is not only a game wherein you 
buy the game then finish it then dump it. It has lots of things to discover. 
We can learn from them, specifically the Words of Wisdom, and we can apply 
some of them in our lives. Gaming also means, to have fun and we should be 
happy every time we’re playing, that’s why Square included some funny scenes 
in the game to make you laugh and enjoy more. Not just play and finish, as 
stated above. As for the screw ups, these are just minor mistakes in the game 
such as spellings, graphics, etc. But, I’d like to point out that this is not 
intended to hurt others’ feelings just because they made a mistake. It’s only 
for fun. 

-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-

                              WORDS OF WISDOM

This section contains different statements, which are excerpts from the game. 
The statements that will be included here are those that you can learn a 
lesson from, those that we can apply in our lives, and those that touch the 
hearts of the gamers out there. Also includes simple, yet interesting 
statements.

1. “You don’t need a reason to help people.”
   ,Zidane (Beginning)

2. “How do you prove that you exist...? Maybe we don’t exist...”
   ,Vivi (Beginning)

3. “Having sworn fealty, must I spend my life in servitude?”
   ,Steiner (Beginning)

4. “I do what I want! You have problem!?”
   ,Quina (Beginning)

5. “Someday I will be queen, but I will always be myself.”
   ,Dagger (Beginning)

6. “To be forgotten is worse than death.”
   ,Freya (Beginning)

7. “The only dependable thing about the future is uncertainty.”
   ,Amarant (Beginning)

8. “I don’t want to be alone anymore...”
   ,Eiko (Beginning)

9. “We seek the meaning of life because we are mortal.”  
   ,Philisopher Minu (Protection Bell Key Item)

10. “Let fear propel you forward. Do not let failure stifle you.”
   =Iron-Tail Fratley= (World Map Key Item)

11. “The body may perish, but the spirit lives on.”  
   =Words on the Artifact= (Une’s Mirror Key Item)

12. “The Sly Eagle doesn’t kill at whim.”   ,Zidane (Madain Sari)
   (The deceitful eagle doesn’t attack on impulse.)

13. “Good food not only delicious, Good food made with heart! This very 
important when cooking for friends...”    ,Quina (Ending)

14. “Chivalry requires a knight to look after his comrades-in-arms. I will 
not abandon you! And I shall follow you to kingdom come if I must. You 
remember that!”    ,Steiner (Pandemonium)

15. “World only have two things: Things you can eat and things you no can 
eat.”   ,Quina (Black Mage Village)

-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-

                              SCENES OF HUMOR

This section particularly focuses on scenes that make you laugh and ease your 
seriousness in the game. One thing to remember is that this is really 
intended to be a funny scene, and it’s not a mistake.

1. In the FMV where Steiner chases Zidane and Garnet in the beginning of the 
game where the 2 were trying to escape, Zidane and Garnet were able to swing 
successfully to the Theater Ship. Steiner, on the other hand, crashed into 
the wall of the Theater Ship.

2. After swinging from the Tower of Alexandria onto the Theater Ship, while 
trying to escape, Dagger bumped into the Musicians creating a funny tune. 

3. At the Evil Forest Camping scene, when the party leaves, Zidane will tap 
Steiner’s back. Steiner will be surprised, but little does he know that he 
was already left behind.

4. While boarding the Cargo Ship in Dali, Zidane, accidentally or maybe 
intentionally touched Dagger’s Bottom and he says, “Oooh, soft!”

5. When the party is at Bran Bal, in the chamber where the genomes are 
staring at the blue stone, Quina enters and asks them about it, s/he wants to 
lick it and asks if s/he can do it; s/he no received an answer and LICKS it!! 
then s/he says: "Oh. it felt salty"

6. When you visit Gizamaluke's Grotto later you'll see that 2 kupos were 
born. Then, in disk 3, there is other more! and it's the smallest of all!!

7. You know that to enter Conde Petie everybody have to say "Rally-ho!", 
right? then, in the ATE of Quina, the guy at the shop (I don't know what they 
are) greets Quina with a "Rally-ho!" and Quina responses: "Rally-ho 
yourself". That’s a good one Quina. :)

8. Another funny thing in Conde Petie is after Zidane and Garnet are married, 
you can marry Vivi and Quina, too!!

9. One really funny scene is when the party if floating of the airship when 
they arrive at the shimmering island, Steiner looks like a helpless bug 
wiggling to get to the ground.

-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-

                                SCREWED UP

This section, contains screw ups or mistakes found in Final Fantasy IX. This 
section is not intended to hurt the feelings of the developers. Again, it is 
just for fun.

1. In Alexandria Prison, the Soldiers will chase Steiner and Marcus as they 
escape right? Well, why can’t they chase them up the stairs. They have a way 
lighter armor than Steiner? It’s better if they were able to chase them. 

2. In Alexandria, a phrase will say, “Now, Dagger will try to save his 
mother”. This is wrong, because Dagger is a girl.  It should be, “Now, Dagger 
will try to save her mother”.

-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-

                               SAD MOMENTS

This section, contains the different events in the game where we almost cried 
our hearts out, feel pity for someone, feel remorse at actions and decisions 
of different people, and even angered by a very unlucky and non-momentous 
event. 

1. Aboard the Cargo ship, when Black Waltz 3 destroyed the Black Mages, we 
feel pity for Vivi as they are just trying to protect him.

2. We all know that Dagger loves her mother so much even for what she did. At 
the end, Brahne finally realizes that what she has done is wrong. Then, she 
dies.

3. The destruction of Cleyra, Lindblum, and Alexandria by the Eidolons.

4. When Freya and Fratley met after a long time being away from each other, 
Fratley didn’t even remember his long lost love, Freya.

-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-


                     -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
                            GUIDE TRANSLATIONS
                     =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

In this section, you’ll find info about ongoing translations of this guide 
into different languages. I hope these guys will be able to finish it soon so 
that more people can view and understand this guide. To find out more info 
when these people will finish the guide translation, please visit my website. 
I’ll put it there.

Italian Translation  - Emmanuela Corso (Part 1 Complete)
   - Go to http://www.nonsologiochi.com/walkthrough.asp?I=159
Japanese Translation  - Me ;) (to be posted on my Home Page)
Polish Translation  - Martin (poganin)
French Translation  - David Harrison


                     -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
                         CREDITS/ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
                     =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

- Thanks to Square for creating the best Final Fantasy game ever. In behalf 
of the Playstation gamers, thanks for bringing Final Fantasy to us it sure 
was a blast! (well, that’s it for Final Fantasy for PS)

- Thanks to my Mom and Sis for waiting patiently for me to finish my session 
of gaming. (They’re waiting for me so that they can watch TV)

- Ultra Special thanks to one of my co-writers and one of the most respected 
ones, Dingo Jellybean (DJellybean21@aol.com) for the following info:

1. Getting Rare items at the Treno Auction House
2. Ending sequences for Hammer and Save the Queen
3. Ozma Strategy

- Ultra Special Thanks to Yee Seng Fu (ysf@pacific.net.sg) for the exchange 
of information in my guide and his Side Quests and Secrets Guide at 
Gamefaqs.com. Here are the info that I borrowed from his guide. Thanks again.

1. Treno Knights House (Amdusias and Griffin)
2. Japanese Lyrics of Melodies of Life
3. Quale’s Level information
4. Friendly Yan’s rewards
5. Special Abilities Section (Thievery, etc.)
6. Summoning Secrets

- Major thanks to Elranzer (elranzer@hotmail.com) for giving me permission to 
refer to his Quick Walkthrough. Thanks my friend.

- Major thanks to Ferdinand Pelayo (fpelayo@altavista.com) for his info 
regarding the scoring system of the card game. And super thanks to him for 
supplying me the info about the bosses’ HP,MP,Level,Type,Weakness. He got it 
from the Official Brady Games Guide so they also deserve credit here.

- Major thanks to Brady Games for the HP,MP,Level,Type,Weakness info of the 
bosses in the game. 

- Special thanks to Martin (sunrider61@hotmail.com) for the following

1. his info/views about the card game rules.
2. his complete contributions for the Ragtime Mouse.
3. for his Fantasy Trivia contributions.

- Special thanks goes to Hikaru (hyuga9@pacific.net.sg) for his info about 
the prizes from the Jump rope mini-game at Alexandria. 

- Special thanks to Tuxedo Alex (tuxedoalex@home.com) for his contributions 
for the Fantasy Trivia.

- Special thanks to the following people who gave me information about the 
Festival of the Hunt at Lindblum:

“Vince” jerry1516@yahoo.com
“Michael Frazer” mfrazer1@optonline.net
“Brandon Harwell” anubis@fcg.net
“Rockin_Gohan” ANTLinkDD@aol.com
“Betovan Martino” ibmartino@hotmail.com
“RJ Thoune” rj.g.thoune@syntegra.com

- Special thanks to Lloyd Hannesson (Lloyd_Hannesson@umanitoba.ca) for his 
info about Carbuncle.

- Special thanks to Jay Adams (jayadams@microsoft.com) for his info about the 
maximum dig in Chocobo Hot & Cold.

- Special thanks to Brandon Harwell (anubis@fcg.net) for his contribution at 
the Fantasy Trivia Section.

- Special thanks to RJ Thoune (rj.g.thoune@syntegra.com) for telling me the 
items that you can steal from Baku in the beginning.

- Special thanks to David Schloss (drschloss@mcdonogh.org) for sending in the 
prize that you’ll get if you pleased all 100 audiences at Alexandria.

- Special thanks to Brendan (bmcclosk@21stcentury.net) for his contribution 
for Chocobo Hot & Cold.

- Special thanks to Pete Wang (akaiame@nergal.org) for his contribution for 
the special battles.

- Special thanks to Megat Suhamdan (shah_ff7ff8@hotmail.com) for his strategy 
for Soulcage at Iifa Tree, I never imagined that it can be done! :)

- Special thanks to Chris (Y2JRULZ4LYF@aol.com) for correcting me about the 
Status Effects

- Special thanks to Flo (panda@mangoosta.net) for her correction at Iifa 
Tree. Also, about the stones in Conde Petie.

- Special thanks to Mozerg (MultiMozerg@aol.com) for the following:

1. Her correction at the Summon Magic section 
2. For supplying the items that you can win from the Auction house at Treno
3. For her contributions for the Fantasy Trivia.
4. For the ending information too

- Special thanks to Veewee106396@cs.com for his contributions for the Fantasy 
Trivia.

- Special thanks also goes to Mark Shallow (046105s@acadiau.ca) for his 
numerous contributions for the Fantasy Trivia.

- Special thanks to Dr. Koo (deuxist@home.com) for the following:

1. his very interesting contributions for the Fantasy Trivia section.
2. told me how to get Quina early in the game.
3. 2216 gil at the Treno Auction House.
4. for telling me how to get the Lindblum Card
5. for telling me about the Phoenix Pinion near Alexandria Castle gate at the 
beginning of the game.
6. for telling me about the Phoenix Pinion at Conde Petie.

- Special thanks to Digital Vagabond (PunkLover1@cs.com) for his 
contributions for the Fantasy Trivia. 

- Special thanks to Persius (persius@ix.netcom.com) for info about the Cancer 
Stellazzio.

- Special thanks to Amberdrake (rodger@essex1.com) for his contribution for 
the Fantasy Trivia.

- Special thanks also to Bert Villacorta (penpen75@tokyo-3.com) for info 
about the Lindblum card and Frog Card.

- Special thanks to Josh (jsh1082@yahoo.com) for the steal info of Black 
Waltz #1 at the Ice Cavern.

- Special thanks to LSTYD (LSTYD@aol.com) for his correction on a Fantasy 
Trivia.

- Special thanks to Jason Huskey (sepiroth365@ignmail.com) for the following:

1. Card Collector Level info (Coach, Advisor, Director, Dealer, Trader,
and correcting me for Doctor, Professor, Veteran, Freak). 
2. for another Alexandria Card location. 
3. for the Soft Item to be used at Oeilvert. 
4. Meltigemini Attack Update
5. Other card locations (Gargant, Elixir)
6. Chocobo Hot and Cold info

- Special thanks to Dragonus Flare (d_flare@hotmail.com) for his contribution 
for the Fantasy Trivia section.

- Special thanks to Neal McAloon (NSX@northnet.org) for his info about the 
weak weapons at Ipsen’s Castle. 

- Special thanks to Negate (Negate79@aol.com) for telling me where to get the 
Abandoned Beach Chocograph.

- Special thanks to Chicobo394@aol.com for his contributions:

1. For the Fantasy Trivia Section. 
2. For the steal information for Antlion, Beatrix, 2nd snake at Fossil Roo, 
   Thorn and Zorn.
3. For a Pop Quiz Question
4. For the Germinas Boots at Burmecia
5. For his info about ship cards
6. For telling me where I can get the Ultima Weapon Card
7. For informing me where Quan’s Dwelling is

- Special thanks to Josh Attwood (attwoodj@pilot.msu.edu) for telling me the 
location of the Mognet Central.

- Special thanks to Indra, Hansen, Andrew and Yosa (indra_pramana@yahoo.com) 

1. for the info about HADES. 
2. for the Side Quest at Madain Sari. 
3. for the Special Battles Section.
4. info about the 4-armed man in Daguerreo.
5. Carbuncle and Fenrir’s Secrets
6. Final Fantasy III OST

- Special thanks to Dave (nike13@ids.net) for telling me where to get the 
Taurus Stellazzio.

- Special thanks to Lim Yap Hong (yaphong@yahoo.com) for telling me the 
meaning of the letters in the cards from Tetra Master and the rules of the 
game itself.

- Special thanks to BURP (bbelloc@hotmail.com) for his contributions for the 
Fantasy Trivia Section. And also for lots of corrections and contributions 
for the trivias!

- Special thanks to Mr. Andrew Gilbert Gualberto (andrew415@gamefreaks.ph) 
for his valuable info about the following:

1. Told me where to get ALL Stellazzios
2. Told me where Quan’s Dwelling is
3. Told me about the locations of the 3 Chocographs that I can’t find
4. Told me about the extra treasures you’ll get at Chocobo’s Paradise
5. Told me the whereabouts of Ozma. 
6. sending me info about other battles at the Treno Knight’s house
7. For his Fantasy Trivia Contributions
8. For his complete Ragtime Mouse Q&A Contributions
9. For the info about Hippaul in Alexandria
10. Carbuncle and Fenrir’s Secrets

- Special thanks to Yonson Yonson (yonsonyonson@hotmail.com) for telling me 
how to see the full scenes of the Eidolons. 

- Special thanks to Paul Falcon (pfalconx@juno.com) for his contributions for 
the Fantasy Trivia section.

- Special thanks to Luis Alberto S. Cardenas (evildarkheart@hotmail.com) for 
the entire list of Quina’s Blue Magic. Also, for a Card Location for the 
Ifrit Card.

- Special thanks to Meltorefas (tint@interchange.ubc.ca) for his information 
about the 2 bloodstones I missed at the Desert Palace.

- Special thanks to Ben Price (stonehnd@dwave.net) for his contribution on 
how to beat the Grand Dragon.

- Special thanks to Uromastyx2000@aol.com for his contributions for the Blue 
Magic.

- Special thanks to Edward Santos (h_kaze@hotmail.com) for the L1 Targeting.

- Special thanks to Percival for the info about the Pumice

- Special thanks to David Scotton (dscotton@uclink4.berkeley.edu) for 
Zidane’s Tower at Memoria.

- Special thanks to Daniel Orner (omegaonyx@geocities.com) for his 
corrections for the Fantasy Trivia Section.

- Special thanks to Kevin Jeun (kj2786@hotmail.com) for some Spelling/Grammar 
Correction.

- Special thanks to Mr. Aljoriz M. Dublin (aljay@i-cebu.com.ph) for his 
contribution for the Fantasy Trivia Section.

- Special thanks to PhoenixUltima (phoenixu@teleport.com) for his strategy 
against Necron.

- Special thanks to Jason Platten (jasplatt@earthlink.net) for the extra item 
at Ipsen’s Castle.

- Special thanks to MAG (gandolpm@mail.nih.gov) for the Moogle Suit and 
Autograph at Lindblum in Disc 1. And for the very detailed intructions on how 
to get the inaccessible trunks to get more chests at Cleyra’s Trunk.

- Special thanks to Billy Englehart  (y2jericho5000@hotmail.com) for the ff:

1. Steal information for Black Waltz #2 2nd encounter.
2. Gil at South Gate (before Treno)
3. Gysahl Greens at Cleyra Settlement
4. Steal info for Beatrix at Cleyra
5. For a correction at Fossil Roo
6. For some items at the Iifa Tree
7. For the Lapis Lazuli at Painter’s House in Lindblum

- Major thanks to Eric Tropin (manofbone@cheatcc.com) for sending in the 
complete names of the enemies in this game.

- Special thanks to Barubary (barubary@home.com) for:

1. Telling me where Mois is at Disc 4
2. telling about Stiltzkin’s items at Alexandria. 
3. His contributions and corrections for the Fantasy Trivia Section.
4. telling me how Vivi can win at the Festival of the Hunt at Lindblum
5. Brigandine Vest at Iifa Tree
6. telling me also how to get Quina early in the game
7. For the stronest attack in the game. (FAQ #21)
8. for telling me where exactly and how to get the Excalibur II.
9. for sending me info about the shop at the Summit Station.
10. reminding me about Morrison at Madain Sari
11. for sending me alternate locations for some cards
12. Tons of corrections in my guide
    - Chocobo’s paradise treasures and the map
13. information on Blue Magic
14. Ozma and Necron Strategies
15. Beach Hunt update
16. Mognet Central Update (Mois’ location)

- Special thanks to BRASH (brash@mac.com) for supplying info about the last 3 
bosses.

- Special thanks to William Yu (h_kaze@hotmail.com) for telling where to get 
Quina’s Night Blue Magic.

- Special thanks to Uromastyx2000@aol.com for sending in a Blue Magic list 
for Quina. 

- Special thanks to Andrew Schmidt (Drew10784@hotmail.com) for an in-depth 
explanation about using LV5 Death against the Grand Dragon.

- Special thanks to Miranda Maryadi (miranda@centrin.net.id) for her 
contributions for the Fantasy Trivia Section.

- Special thanks to Jason (LockeJV@aol.com) for his Fantasy Trivia 
contributions.

- Special thanks to Jack Moore (codeguru@ezwv.com) for clearing me up about 
the Madain Sari Side Quest.

- Special thanks to MogTheMogri (abatt30@hotmail.com) for the following:

1. info about the money at the very beginning of the game. 
2. Also for the 3 cards you’ll get if you didn’t let Vivi to be the slave of 
Puck. 
3. And the prize you’ll get from Brahne after the fighting scene. 
4. Telling me to modify my Side Quests. 

He really helped me a lot.

- Special thanks to Brainy Boy (zodiacbrave13@hotmail.com) for telling me how 
to get the Hippo into selling equipments at Daguerreo. He also sent in the 
equipment list of that shop. And for his contribution for the Special Battles 
Section.

- Special thanks to rmueller (rmueller@zbzoom.net) for his strategy for the 
Grand Dragons. 

- Special thanks to Han Sun (hansun@iqnet.net.au) for informing me that I 
made a mistake about the tent. 

- Special thanks to Carlos Miranda (gabe_logan@edsamail.com.ph or 
Alpha1@philwebinc.com) for his contributions for the Fantasy Trivia section.

- Special thanks to Big Sexy (blue_126@yahoo.com) for the tip on how to 
acquire Quina’s Blue Magic easier. 

- Special thanks to Kenneth (kenneth182@hotmail.com) for telling me how to 
get the Running shoes at Quan’s Dwelling.

- Special thanks to Piccolo002@aol.com for telling me how to amplify Vivi’s 
Magic by using the Auto-Reflect/Reflect abilities for the Gameplay Tips 
section.

- Special thanks to Brian Friday (bfriday@Lasierra.edu) for telling me how to 
get 2 more treasures at Pandemonium.

- Special thanks to Joaquin Puga (joaquinpuga@infovia.com.ar) for 

1. Telling me how to get Quina early in the game. 
2. For a strategy against Ozma as well as corrections. 
3. A very comprehensive strategy for Tantarian. 
4. The 4-armed man at Daguerreo and the Rank S Medal Key Item.
5. For information about Mr. Morrid’s Coffee Side-Quest
6. For some Blue Magic Corrections

- Special thanks to Aprosenf@aol.com for giving me info about some of the 
important cards and their respective locations. 

- Special thanks to Wulfson344@aol.com for the well-explained info about 
Side-quest #11. 

- Special thanks to Keltarnis (Keltarnis@canada.com) also for sending in 
additional info on side-quest #11. 

- Special thanks to Mike Blais (mirobla@hotmail.com) for some info on the 
Jumping Rope mini-game.

- Special thanks to N.H.Kinz (kin_1987@hotmail.com) for hinting me on the 
items that you can get by digging inside Fossil Roo.

- Special thanks to Dalias (dalias@aerifal.cx) for corrections and additions 
to the Fantasy Trivia Section.

- Special thanks to Kyle Miller (EliteCommando1@excite.com) for 

1. Info on the cards at Alexandria
2. for the info about my missing cards
3. for the Chocobo Hot & Cold update too
4. for the Bad Breath Blue Magic 
5. for the well-explained info about the Beaches
6. for the complete info about Hippaul Racing
7. for the sending a monster list concerning Quina’s Blue Magic
8. for the battle with Quale at Qu’s Marsh
9. Summon Magic Information

- Special thanks to Desmond Quek (r1skbre4ker@hotmail.com) for some info for 
the Blue Magic Section.

- Special thanks to GOkou veGETA (dinastiamejia@hotmail.com) for his Fantasy 
Trivia contribution and some correction for Quina’s Blue Magic.

- Special thanks to Lionel Koh (lionel_koh@hotmail.com) for his correction 
about the Rat Tail.

- Special thanks to David Meleedy (dave.meleedy@analog.com) for telling me 
the correct way of getting the Ancient Aroma in Ipsen’s Castle. And for the 
correction about the Aquamarine at Daguerreo.

- Special thanks to Deviant Savant (dvntsvnt@mail.com) for the info about the 
items at the engine room of Prima Vista.

- Special thanks to MAG (gandolpm@mail.nih.gov) for some corrections for 
Quina’s Blue Magic.

- Special thanks to Will (will907@excite.com) for 

1. The new items at Iifa Tree and 
2. The Kirman Coffee at Madain Sari
3. For the Chimera Armlet in Alexandria too
4. The Black Belt at Black Mage Village

- Special thanks to Danthar "Cardmaster" Darkblade (joel_v13@hotmail.com) for 
more Tetra Master rules.

- Special thanks also to Girard Gorospe (yard_g@edsamail.com.ph) for the info 
about the coffee at Madain Sari.

- Special thanks to Franco (efcayos@edsamail.com.ph) for correcting me about 
the location of the Aries Stellazzio. For some Key Items Contribution and 
some corrections.

- Special thanks to Bryan Glass (bryantheman7@hotmail.com) for correcting me 
about Qu’s Marsh near the Dragon’s Gate.

- Special thanks to NoseSocks (tsulliva@stevens-tech.edu) for the Desert 
Palace level 30 info.

- Special thanks to Theo O’neal (morpheus@imsa.edu) for his very good 
strategy against Ozma!

- Special thanks to Luna (squirestand@hotmail.com) for her Ozma Strategy 
guide and Fantasy Trivia Contribution.

- Special thanks to funkenwangel@aol.com for the info about the chest in the 
South Gate that Steiner just can’t get.

- Special thanks to Ignacio De Lucas (de_lucas@yaho.com) for the correction 
in the Fantasy Trivia Section.

- Special thanks to Samuel Edric Solis (edricsolis@hotmail.com) for the 
following:

1. Earth Guardian Strategy
2. for telling me where to get the Mini-Prima Vista Key Item after Mr. 
Morrid’s Side-Quest
3. for the Blackjack Mini-Game
4. for the Carbuncle Secret
5. Battle with Quale at Qu’s Marsh

- Special thanks to Odinson (Thenotniceguy@aol.com) for contributing in the 
Gameplay Tips Section.

- Special thanks to Zack (zdviegut@students.wisc.edu) for the info on Kuja at 
the End of Disc 3. 

- Special thanks to Sheemone (sj333@hotmail.com) for his info as to where I 
can acquire the cards that I missed. 

- Special thanks to Wee Kok Seong (hellfire_mwks@yahoo.com) for the Elixir at 
Alexandria.

- Special thanks to Eon Strife (eon_strife@yahoo.com) for lots of Fantasy 
Trivia Contributions.

- Special thanks to Ernie Hixon (eh127@umail.umd.edu) for a correction at the 
Chocobo Hot & Cold Section.

- Special thanks to Omnikion (omnikion@hotmail.com) for telling me a good use 
for the Aloha Equipments.

- Special thanks to John Blitz Macalma (johnblitz@edsamail.com.ph) for the 
info about the Alexandria Card in Disc 3.

- Special thanks to NeoMoonGalaxy (black_galaxia@yahoo.com) for the following 
(now I know that his favorite character is Quina!):

1. Told me the location of Mini-Brahne
2. Corrections for the Ability List
3. Correction for the Aquamarine Stone
4. Words of Wisdom contribution (Quina)
5. Absolutely hilarious Scenes of Humor!
6. Suggested the Sad Moments Section
7. Suggested to include the words of the characters in the beginning at the 
Words of Wisdom Section

- Special thanks to Melissa Van Wormer(tigressgirl13@hotmail.com) for the 
following:

1. Steal information correction for Baku
2. Ether at Lindblum Grand Castle
3. Gil at house beside steeple in Alexandria
4. Items at Alexandria Steeple
5. Card at the Bell on the Steeple
6. Dali Items
7. Silver Gloves at Lindblum synth shop
8. Gil outside Lindblum Inn
9. Multina Racket at South Gate
10. Phoenix Pinion at Cleyra Settlement
11. Zuu and Nymph Card at Cleyra
12. 1,800 Gil at Conde Petie
13. Ether and Elixir at Black Mage Village
14. Ether at Conde Petie Mountain Path
15. Phoenix Down at Madain Sari
16. Elixir and a Cachusha from Mr. Morrid’s Side Quest
17. Elixir and a Remedy at Lindblum in Disc 3 (Card Freak Gon)
18. Tent inside Hilda Garde 3
19. 2,700 Gil at Conde Petie

- Special thanks to Reeko (reelfish@moncourrier.com) for his contribution on 
how to encounter the Ragtime Mouse.

- Special thanks to Chris Dobson (chris@dobson58.fsnet.co.uk) for the Soft 
info at Oeilvert.

- Special thanks to Rev (rev_concepcion@yahoo.com) for the Phoenix Pinion and 
Phoenix Down difference (FAQ #24). For the Trance abilities of Steiner and 
Amarant.

- Special thanks to Lau Zhen-Jock (zhenjock@zhenjock.com) for the info about 
Ruby at the beginning of the game.

- Special thanks to Marcelo Suzumura (SuzumuraMM@aol.com) for telling me an 
alternate way of getting Earth Shake for Quina.

- Special thanks to Acessk8board@aol.com for the correction about the 
location of Yeti.

- Special thanks to Wolvie (bxcen@yahoo.com) for the Tantarian Strategy.

- Special thanks to Brock45678@aol.com for his Fantasy Trivia Contributions.

- Special thanks to Grandmaster Sexay (grandmaster4000@hotmail.com) for his 
in-depth strategies against the 4 Chaos Guardians at Memoria.

- Special thanks to Pennywise (pennywise120@homail.com) for his Fantasy 
Trivia contributions.

- Special thanks to DarkSera@aol.com for his Fantasy Trivia Contributions.

- Special thanks to Rahl (leegregg@cookeville.total-web.net) for correcting 
me about the Virus Information.

- Special thanks to Moomba Who (chocobo2602@hotmail.com) for correcting me 
about the Venom Status effect.

- Special thanks to TENDO847@aol.com for the info on how to enter the Desert 
Palace.

- Special thanks to Jacques Maxwell (jmax9991@hotmail.com) for his Fantasy 
Trivia Contribution.

- Special thanks to Guillaume Louel (glouel@techmag.net) for correcting me in 
the directions at Black Mage Village

- Special thanks to Benny Lenchner (bennymail@home.com) for a nice strategy 
at the battle at Treno Knight’s House.

- Special thanks to Betovan Martino (ibmartino@hotmail.com) for sending me 
info about Carbuncle and Fenrir’s Secret. Also for an alternate location for 
the Elixir Card. For telling me about Stiltzkin’s offer at Alexandria in Disc 
3.

- Special thanks to David Gibson (dainslef@hotmail.com) for the Alexandria 
items in Disc 1.

- Special thanks to Steven Zeck (spzeck@vmth.ucdavis.edu) for a very in depth 
Ozma Strategy

- Special thanks to Katrina (katx12@edsamail.com.ph) for reminding me about 
the Card rules. For the alternate location of Alexander card.

- Special thanks to vash24 (vash24@trigun.com) for telling me about the 
images of the characters when in Trance.

- Special thanks to Thomas Hefty (trhefty@bellsouth.net) for telling me about 
the Bomb Card in Alexandria.

- Special thanks to Hero bobmerman (rumple4skln@yahoo.com) for telling me 
about the Vanish Blue Magic and for the MP usage info of some of the Blue 
Magic.

- Special thanks to Luke Hill (knighty2@yahoo.com) for his Ozma Strategy.

- Special thanks to MKahnFan@aol.com for a Fantasy Trivia contribution

- Special thanks to John Dekker (JDekker@BJengineers.com) for corrections in 
the weapon list

- Special thanks to Neil (Ssaijan4@aol.com) for the Alexandria card in the 
jump rope game

- Special thanks to Dracoboy37@aol.com for a Fantasy Trivia contribution and 
a Scenes of Humor contribution

- Special thanks to Pete Ownby for corrections at the Chocobo’s Paradise 
Treasures section. Also, for further corrections in the ability list.

- Special thanks to SpeldidGenesis@aol.com for giving some tips on learning 
Blue Magic

- Special thanks to Dave (amarant76@hotmail.com) for giving some tips in 
beating the Yans

- Special thanks to Matthew Withers (majin_matthias@yahoo.co.uk) for his Ozma 
strategy guide

- Special thanks to Traveller (vancouver78@searchbug.com) for his very useful 
and very intricate Ozma Strategy guide

- Special thanks to ajie (ajieadona@edsamail.com.ph) for supplying the rest 
of the card collector levels

- Special thanks to Eliseo Caballero (elyka1729@yahoo.com) for an enemy info 
correction

- Special thanks to Donald Westcott (bigwestcott@hotmail.com) for sending in 
a tip at Cleyra Settlement

- Special thanks to Damien (damien_cousins@consteam.com) for Anemone and 
Antlion’s locations.

- Special thanks to Atomos (atomos@darkmail.com) for his Lich strategy 
contribution

- Special thanks to Kaze Yagami (yagami@pacific.net.sg) for the Melodies of 
Life Lyrics (Japanese) and the translation.

- Special thanks to Eva_pilot (eva_pilot@nervhq.org) for the info on Thievery 
and how stealing affects it.

- Special thanks to Jason Miller (sparky11@mediaone.net) and durron597
(durron597@hotmail.com) for the computation of the damage of Dragon’s Crest.

- Special thanks to PlayOnline.com for the info on the Frog Drop Damage 
calculation and Quale’s Level Information. Also, for the Summoning Secrets 
for Atomos, Odin, and Phoenix.

- Thanks to Richard (angelwingnl@yahoo.com) for his time and efforts. :)

- Thanks to Gabriel Clermont (Trane29@hotmail.com) for correcting me in the 
Equipments list.

- A Very special thanks goes to Brandon Boucher (TheDOORS66@aol.com) for the 
idea of the Screwed Up section. I came up with the Words of Wisdom and the 
Scenes of Humor. He told me it would be a great addition to the guide.

- A Very Special Thanks goes to all the readers of this guide. Without you, 
this will not be called a guide at all.

- A Very special thanks goes to Sensui. He’s a friendly person and we’ve 
talked ever since I started the FF9 guide. And he stopped talking after I 
mentioned him. what a guy! :| 

- Special thanks also to these people who are interested in the guide and 
asked my permission politely to put my guide on their respective web sites. 

“Al Amaloo” of VGStrategies;
“Allen” from Cheat Planet;
“DB Moenning” from nextff.8m.com;
“Jamie Long” of Games Domain (UK);
“Andrew Bilyk” from RPGamer.com;
“Gerald Villoria” of GameSpot;
“Dave A.” From Cheat Code Central;
“Erik Jackman” of Square Expo;
“Jarrod Gonzales” from Final Fantasy Online;
“Sam” from ff3.com;
“Scott Miller” from GameCasters;
“Keven T.” Of Cheat City;
“Rajiv Ashrafi” of BDGames;
“Mike Nam” of Happy Puppy;
“Timothy” of Fantasy Square;
“Jay Sanvictores” of PhilAnime;
“Richard Gardner” from Super Cheats;
“Chi” of RPG Dreamers;
“Max” from Ever Fantasy;
“Croi Makin” from Crystal flame;
“Foxstrifer” of Squaresoft’s Fans Union 2;
“Chuck Sakoda” of Final Fantasy Forever;
“jac” of Fantasy Gamer;
“massimofur” of Groggy Land;
“JOKER” of gamespecs;
“Sayis” of Dr. Sayis;
“Silver Queen” of Silverqueen;
“Kevin Walter” of Gameshark.com;
“John Blitz Macalma”;
“Patti Estes”;
“Dennis Hendrys”;
“Tritocho”;
“Eternal Vivi”;
“Beatrice Margarita Lapa”;
“Steve Cheek”;
“Captain Jeremy”;
“Matt”;
“Alex Hopwood”;
“Alakazamiac”;
“Mr. Alvin”;
“Naes”;
“CM”;
“Aaron Shaner”;
“Patrick Walsh”;
“Zack Crowell”;
“Jordon Musgrove”;
“ANDREWCLEGGY”;
“rydia”;
“Sjel”;
“dawnclif”;
“Shadow Risae”;
“Matthew Smith”;
“Ayman Habayeb”;
“Anders Gatu”;
“Tristan”;
“Notsu”;
“Patel Chirag”;

If I forgot anyone, just tell me. I have tons of e-mails and sometimes I 
overlook a few of them. I apologize if ever that happened. 

- And last but absolutely not the least, thanks to GameFAQs where you can 
view and download this walkthrough/FAQ. CjayC deserves all the credits given 
to him. Congratulations man, keep up the excellent work!

These are all that I would like to thank as of now. If I happen to forget 
anyone, please inform me. I’ll check it out on my inbox if you really have 
something to be credited (I never delete important ones). Note, that if there 
are same info sent to me, it is on a first come first serve basis. Any 
suggestions, comments, additions, etc. will be duly credited to you once 
you’ve submitted one to me through my e-mail address written at the very top 
of this Walkthrough/FAQ.  Thank you very much!



                             Final Fantasy IX(tm)
             is a registered trade mark of SquareSoft, co. Ltd.

                      Playstation(tm) and its accessories
      are registered trade marks of Sony Computer Entertainment America

                    The Final Fantasy IX Walkthrough/FAQ
                                (Part 2 of 2)
                           Copyright November 2000
                                  “A” Tadeo
