          FINAL FANTASY TACTICS: Complete Game Script
                 =============================
                          Version (Final)

                 By: Tsogtsaihan Baatar
                 Created: September 28, 2001
                 Last Update: September 9, 2002
                 E-mail: Tsogtoo777@yahoo.com
                 
                 FAQ Info
                 Pages: 240
                 Words: 59,151
                 Paragraphs: 5,064
                 Lines: 12,153


                   =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
                       << Disclaimer >>
                   =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

This Game Script FAQ is created for personal use only. You 
MUST not use it for anything that -gains profit-. You're also 
not allowed to rip off part/s of this FAQ and put it on your 
own FAQ or use it. This is called "plagiarism", the act of 
stealing and passing off of ideas and words of another as 
one's own without crediting the source.

I have written this game script myself. This written down 
script cannot be copied or posted without my permission! If 
you want to post it in your web site please do ask me first!
My e-mail address: Tsogtoo777@yahoo.com
These following sites have my permission to use my FAQ: 

http://www.gamefaqs.com
http://www.neoseeker.com
http://www.psxcodez.com
http://www.gamesdomain.com
http://www.rpgamer.com
http://www.thefinalfantasycollection.com


                    =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
                         Introduction
                    =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

- Seeing that this game has spiced up my enjoyment, I decided 
to create a FAQ :) This script includes the script for every 
action in the game and also battles. This FAQ is best viewed 
in Microsoft Word.


                        =------------=
                       Table of Contents
                        =------------=
                
                I.   E-mail 
                II.  Versions and Updates
                III. Game Script
                           - Chapter 1: The Meager
                           - Chapter 2: The Manipulator and 
                                               the Subservient
                           - Chapter 3: The Valiant 
                           - Chapter 4: Somebody to Love
                IV.  Side Quest - Game Script 
                V.   Brave Story
                       1. Germonik Scriptures
                       2. Person
                       3. Job
                       4. Unexplored Land  
                       3. Treasure
                VII. Credits    


                           --------
                            E-mail
                           --------

This is an e-mail policy section. If you want to send an e-
mail to me, here are the things that you must do or must not 
do.

Acceptable:
-----------
1. Send me questions about the FAQ.
2. Corrections are acceptable.
3. Contributions are acceptable. (Depends on what kind of 
contribution though...) 
4. Acknowledgements are also acceptable! 

Unacceptable:
-------------
1. Please don't send vulgar e-mails.
2. Don't send me virus or letters that have no meaning.
3. Don't send me game related questions! This is a game script 
not a walkthrough!
4. Don't send me e-mails that are not in English!

If you do not follow these simple unacceptable e-mail policy. 
Your e-mail will be ignored, deleted, blocked, etc.


                          -========-
                      Versions and Updates
                          -========-

Version 1.0 -=- (Started: September 28, 2001)
---------------------------------------------
This is the very first version of my FAQ. 
     - Script Update:
         A small update in Chapter 1  
     - Rumors section
     - Characters section
 

Version 1.1 -=- (Started: October 1, 2001)
------------------------------------------
     - Script Update:
         A small update to Chapter 2
     - Character Update
     - Rumors Update
     - Job (new section)
     - Treasure (new section)


Version 1.2 -=- (Started: January 10, 2001)
-------------------------------------------
Fixed some typos. I am sorry for not updating the FAQ for a 
long time. Christmas was great. I will be now updating the FAQ 
frequently. Enjoy!
     - Script Update:
         Updated the script to Chapter 3.
     - Character Update (to chapter 3)
     - Job Update (a minor update)
     - Treasure Update (a minor update)

     
Version 1.3 -=- (Started: January 12, 2002)
-------------------------------------------
In this update, I only worked on the script. The script is 
almost finished. I will be working on the Brave Story section 
after I finish the script.
     - Script Update:
         Finished Chapter 3.
     - Character Update (a minor update)
     - Rumors Update (a minor update)
     - Added the e-mail policy (new section)


Version 1.4 -=- (Started: February 20, 2002)
--------------------------------------------
     - Script Update
     - Character Update
     - Rumors Update
     - Added the credits section
     - Added Germonik Scriptures (a new section)


Version 1.5 -=- (Started: February 23, 2002)
--------------------------------------------
The script is finally finished!
     - Script Update:
         Fixed some typos.
         Changed Orlan to Olan in the last FMV.
         Script finished.
         Added 'News' part.


Version: Final -=- (Started: March 6, 2002)
-------------------------------------------
This FAQ is 100% complete. I don't intend to update it as of 
now but I may update it again after I proofread it.
         Fixed some typos on the script.
         Added 'Job' section.
         Added 'Side Quest Script'.
         Finished 'Unexplored Land' section.
         Finished 'Treasure' section.

==============================================================


             =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
          -------------------------------------------
          FINAL FANTASY TACTICS: Complete Game Script
          -------------------------------------------
             =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

                A warrior takes sword in hand,
                 clasping a gem to his heart.

                 Engraving vanishing memories
                        into the sword,

                 He places finely honed skills
                        into the stone.

                    Spoken from the sword,
                 handed down from the stone...

                 Now the story can be told...

                        Square presents

                 The "The Zodiac Brave Story".
                               

                             IIIII
                            IFF_FFI
                           II<(_)>II 
                            IFFFFFI
                              FFF
                              FFF
                  IIIIIIIIIIIIFFFIIIIIIIIIIII
                 III ===================== III
                 III FINAL FANTASY TACTICS III
               IIIII ===================== IIIII
              IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
             IIII       N||NNNNNNNNN||N       IIII
             II         N||NNN-S-NNN||N         II
             I          N||NNNNNNNNN||N          I
                        N||NNN-Q-NNN||N 
                        N||NNNNNNNNN||N
                        -||NNN-U-NNN||- 
                        -||NNNNNNNNN||-
                        -||NNN-A-NNN||-
                        -||NNNNNNNNN||-
                        N||NNN-R-NNN||N
                        N||NNNNNNNNN||N
                        N||NNN-E-NNN||N
                        N||NNNNNNNNN||N
                        -||NNN-S-NNN||-
                        -||NNNNNNNNN||-
                        -||NNN-O-NNN||-
                        -||NNNNNNNNN||-
                        N||NNN-F-NNN||N
                        N||NNNNNNNNN||N
                        N||NNN-T-NNN||N
                        N||NNNNNNNNN||N
                         NNNNNNNNNNNNN
                         |==NN-T-NN==|
                         |-NNNNNNNNN-|
                          ==NNNNNNN==                         
                          N==NNNNN==N
                           N==NNN==N
                            N==o==N
                             N=o=N
                              N=N
                               I
                               
                
        
     I am Alazlam, a scholar of ancient Ivalice history...

            Have you ever heard of the "Lion War"?

              It divided Ivalice in two over who
             would be the successor to the throne.

               It ended with the appearance of a
                   young hero named Delita.

                  Everybody living here knows
                      this hero's tale...

                  But we also know that what
                 we see with our eyes alone...
                 isn't necessarily the truth.

                      Here's a young man.

              He is the youngest son of the noble
               Beoulve...pillars of knighthood.

              There's no record of his playing an 
                 active part in history but...

           According to the "Durai Report" released 
            last year (concealed for many years by
         church), this unknown man is the true hero...

             The church claims he was a blasphemer
             and anarchist-the root of all evil...

                   But is this the "truth"?

                    Won't you join me on a
                   journey for the "truth"?

    Before that, please tell me your 'name' and 'birthday'.
                        
                        Ramza:  July 26

                        Square presents

                    The "Zodiac Brave Story"

                   -'FINAL FANTASY TACTICS'-


          Art Direction:
          [Hiroshi Minagawa]

          Character Design by:
          [Akihiko Yoshida]

          
          Artistic Supervisor

          Battle Maps:
          [Hideo Minaba]

          Character Animation:
          [Fumiyasu Sasaki]

          Visual Effects:
          [Tiro Mifune]

          Battle Map Creators:
          [Yuko Abiru]
          [Yuki Azuma]
          [Akane Haruki]
          [Nobuyuki Ikeda]
          [Akiyoshi Masuda]
          [Koji Matsushita]
          [Yuka Migamoto]
          [Toshiyuki Mogi]
          [Tsutomu Mouri]
          [Rena Sasaki]
          [Sachiko Tanabe]
          [Takaharu Tanaka]
          [Misako Tsutsui]
          [Takahiro Yamashita]

          Character Animators:
          [Micko Hoshina]
          [Konomi Ishizuka]
          [Kiyofumi Kato]
          [Toshiaki Matsumoto]
          [Eiichiro Nakatsu]
          [Tsuyoshi Namiki]
          [Makoto Sawano]
          [Yuichi Shiota]

          Visual Effect Artist:
          [Yoshimasa Furukawa]
          [Noriko Ikeda]
          [Taizo Inukai]
          [Yuko Hatae]
          

          Movies

          Director of Movie:
          [Toshiyuki Momose]
          
          Production Coordinator:
          [Keiko M. Randolph]

          Production:
          [AnimaTek International]

          
          Main Program
          [Taku Murata]
          
          Visual Effect Program:
          [Satoshi Ogata]
         
          World Map Program:
          [Hiroshi Ono]
    
          Event Program:
          [Tetsuji Iwasaki]

          Additional Program:
          [Masaaki Kubo]
          [Kazuhisa Murakami]
          [Kazuo Suzuki]
          [Yoshinori Tsuchida]

          Music & Original Score by:   
          [Masaharu "Rezon" Iwata]
          [Hitoshi "YmoH.S" Sakimoto]

          Sound Programmer:
          [Hidenori Suzuki]
          
          Sound Engineer:
          [Motoko Watanabe]

          Recorded & Mixed Engineer:
          [Kenji Nagashima]

          Planners:
          [Tsukasa Fujita]
          [Daisuke Fukugawa]
          [Nobuyuki Inoue]
          [Kazutoyo Maehiro]
          [Kiminori Ono]
          [Takayuki Suguro]

          Executive Producer:
          [Tetsuo Mizuno]
          [Tomoyuki Takechi]
          
          Co-Producer:
          [Michio Okamiya]
    
          Game Design by:
          [Hiroyuki Ito] 

          Written & Directed by:
          [Yasumi Matsuno]

          Produced by:
          [Hironobu Sakaguchi]

A young knight with the crest of the black lion is seen on his 
chocobo. The knight carefully watches the area and signals. A 
four men riding chocobos comes out from behind the knight.  The 
five travels through the forest and plains at great speed with 
their chocobos. After travelling for some time, the five men 
finally comes in front of what seems to be a church. 


                    -- Orbonne Monastery --
                    ======================= 

                      God, please help us 
                  sinful children of Ivalice.


Female Knight: Princess Ovelia, let's go.

Princess Ovelia: Just a moment, Agrias...

Agrias: The guards have already arrived.

Priest: Princess, don't give Agrias trouble. Please hurry...

[A knight and two squires comes in from outside.]

Black Knight: What's going on? It's been nearly an hour!

Agrias: Don't be rude to the Princess, Gafgarion.

[The two squires behind the Black Knight kneels down while the 
Black Knight simply bows his head.]

Gafgarion: Is this going to be alright, Agrias? This is an 
urgent issue for us.

Agrias: So there are rude knaves even among the Hokuten?

Gafgarion: I'm being more than kind to the guard captains 
here. Besides, we're mercenaries hired by the Hokuten. I'm not 
obliged to show respect to you.

Agrias: What? How dare you!

[The princess stands up.]

Ovelia: Enough. Let's go.

[The two squires gets up on their feet. The princess walks 
over to the priest.]

Priest: Go with God.

Ovelia: You too, Simon.

[A female knight walks in with a nasty wound. The priest helps 
the knight.]

Female Knight: Lady Agrias!... The enemy!

Simon: Prince Goltana's men!?

[Agrias quickly rushes out the monastery.]

Gafgarion: What one must do to make money. What, Ramza? You 
have a problem, too?

Ramza: ...I'm no longer a Knight. Just a mercenary like you.

Gafgarion: ...That's right. Well then. Let's go!

[The Knight and the two squires goes outside.]

Ovelia: Oh God...


- Outside the monastery -
-------------------------

Agrias: The crest of the Black Lion!? What's wrong with Prince 
Goltana!? He's such an idiot! Does he want to start a war!? 

Goltana Knight: Knave! There's no point in resisting! Just 
give us the Princess, or that beautiful face of yours will be 
scarred forever!

[The black knight and the two squires comes out to help Agrias 
and the others.]

Gafgarion: Fool! Only idiots attack head on!

[Agrias steps forward.]

Agrias: Leave this to us!

Gafgarion: We can't make money that way! Rad, Ramza! Follow 
me!! Kill them all! Don't leave any survivors!

Agrias: Nonsense! There's no need to kill them! That's just 
what Goltana wants us to do! Just let them go!

Gafgarion: That's impossible!

[Agrias takes the upper hand and releases Statis Sword on the 
two archers, injuring and stopping the two. Rad and the other 
two knight pummels the rest of the archers while Gafgarion 
draws his sword and kills the Chemist with his Night Sword 
ability. Ramza finishes off Lezales by stabbing him on the 
chest. After the battle, Ovelia's scream is heard from inside 
the monastery.]

Ovelia: Let go of me!

[Agrias looks at the monastery.]

Agrias: Damn!!

[Agrias runs inside to save the princess. A knight takes the 
princess through the back door of the monastery.]

Knight: Come here! Be quiet!!

Ovelia: Why should I listen to you!?

Knight: What an annoying Princess.

[The knight punches the princess on the stomach and puts her 
on his chocobo. Agrias comes out.]

Agrias: Wait!!

Knight: Tough...Don't blame us. Blame yourself or God.

[The knight takes off with the princess. Agrias runs after the 
knight, realizing she cannot keep up, she falls down on her 
knees.]

Agrias: Oh, God......

[Ramza sees the knight.]

Ramza: ...Delita?? You're alive, Delita? But, why are you in 
Goltana's troops? Why...?


                  Delita's name appears for 
                 the first time a year before 
                   the Lion War broke out. 

           Many soldiers who returned from the war, 
                  had no jobs, little money, 
              and even less loyalty to the crown.

                   Many became thieves and 
                  rebels plotting rebellion 
                   against the royal family. 

                   At that time robbery and 
              murder were commonplace in Ivalice. 
                       Many heroes and 
                  wizards came out of there.
             And Gariland was no exception either.


                    =====================
                    Chapter 1: THE MEAGER
                    =====================

                     ---==== PAST ====---



I------------------------------------------------------------I
|-- =-=-= =-= =-=-= =-= =-=- NEWS -=-= =-= =-=-= =-= =-=-= --|
|                                                            |
|                       The Death Corps                      | 
|                       ===============                      |
| Robberies are on the rise in various areas and Gallione    | 
| is no exception. Wagon hijackings and abductions are       |  
| rampant. Now a group of former criminals and mercenaries,  |       
| called the "Death Corps", have been making the most        | 
| trouble for the Hokuten.                                   |
|                                                            |        
|                                                            |
|                      The King Omdoria                      |
|                      ================                      |
|                                                            |
| There is a great concern over King Omdolia, who collapsed  |
| at Prince Orinas birthday celebration. The Board of        | 
| Chamberlains reported his fever has subsided, but he'll    |
| take 3 weeks to recover. It will be several months before  |
| he can make any public appearances. But since most public  | 
| policy is made by Queen Ruvelia, no turmoil is expected.   |
|                                                            |
|                                                            |
|                     The Fifty Year War                     |
|                     ==================                     |
|                                                            |
| A war that caused terror for nearly 50 years between       |
| Ivalice and Ordalia, known as the "Fifty Year War". The    |
| War was ignited when King Diwanu died without naming a     | 
| successor. The throne was succeeded by Diwanu's brother,   | 
| Valowa, but Denamunda of Ivalice, declared war. This was   | 
| only an excuse... the real reason was because of...        | 
| Zelamonia, a territory of Ivalice running along the        |
| Ordalian border. It was once independent, but was annexed  | 
| over a century ago, after an invasion. Ivalice supported   | 
| Ordalia, but the result was failure. Unrest among the      |
| Nobles and in the cities of Zelamonia, along with Ordalia's| 
| rule, led them to seek intervention from Ivalice.          | 
| With victories in the early battles, Ivalice's Army        |
| marched on the capital of Bura. But King Denamunda fell    |
| ill and was never to return to his kingdom. The confusion  | 
| gave the Ordalian Army an opportunity, as Valowa was       | 
| successful in holding off Ivalice's Army. Approximately 2  | 
| year stalemate of was broken by the Romandan Army's        | 
| invasion.                                                  |
| Romanda is a military state separated from Ivalice by      |
| Larner Channel. Under King Valowa's orders, a blood        | 
| relative, they marched on Ivalice. But, Denamunda who      | 
| succeeded King Denamunda was a brave warrior against both  | 
| the Romanda and Ordalian armies. An outbreak of Bubonic    | 
| Plague in Romanda forced them to retreat in 2 years.       |
| The 2 squads most effective in the war were the Hokuten,   |
| led by Balbanes, and the Nanten, led by T.G. Cid. They     | 
| scored many victories as they marched on Ordalia. But the  | 
| long war was disasterous for both administrations. Farmers'| 
| revolts and riots broke out in many areas, as both         |
| kingdoms focused their war efforts within their borders.   | 
| This made another stalemate broken only by the death of    |
| King Denamunda. (Widely believed to be assassinated) His   | 
| successor, Omdolia was not fit to lead the kingdom, and    |
| left all matters of state to the elder statesmen and the   | 
| Queen. Therefore, there was no power to drive the troops   |
| of Prince Lanard, Valowa's successor, out. After allowing  | 
| the invasion of Zeltennia, battles that both the Hokuten   |
| and the Nanten fought in, Ivalice hoped for peace.         |
| Realizing the war was useless, both kingdoms agreed on     | 
| peace, focusing their efforts within their respective      | 
| borders. Although the agreement was bilateral, Ivalice     | 
| surrendered.                                               |
| Soon after, Ivalice's economy was on the brink of          |
| bankruptcy because of severe war reparations. Payments     |
| could not be made to returning soldiers, and large groups  |
| of Knights were discharged. As a result, high              |
| unemployment, uncertainty and distrust filled Ivalice.     |
|                                                            |
I------------------------------------------------------------I


[Several students nearing graduation of the Gariland Academy 
were assembled. A plan was being formed, centered on the 
Hokuten, to extinguish the Death Corps who were terrorizing 
the Gallione region. The plan was to have the students handle 
all the future problems.]


              -- Military Academy's Auditorium --
              ===================================

Cadet: I heard another wagon bound for Igros was attacked. 

Cadet: Must have been the Death Corps...

Ramza: Something's starting... Know anything, Delita?

Delita: No...but I can guess.

Ramza: What do you mean?

Delita: Prince Larg's coming to town.

Ramza: Prince Larg? Why?

Delita: Not only Larg, but Marquis Elmdor of Limberry, too.

Ramza: That's news! It's not an official visit, is it?

Delita: There are danger zones everywhere in Ivalice. The 
Hokuten Knights are in full operation, but suffering from a 
shortage of men.

Ramza: So, they need us cadets. 

Voice: Everyone, fall in!

[A Hokuten knight comes in.]

Hokuten Knight: You have a mission! As you know, barbarians 
are rapidly increasing here in Gallione. The traitorous Death 
Corps detest the royal family. We cannot overlook them. We 
will begin exterminating these traitors. By order of our 
Master. Larg's Knights stationed at Igros Castle and many 
other groups will participate. Your duty is to support the 
flank. Specifically, you'll go to Igros and help guard it.

[A female Hokuten knight comes in and whispers something to 
the knight. After that, the female knight leaves the room.]

Hokuten Knight: Cadets, ready your swords! A gang of tortured 
thieves is trying to sneak into this town. We'll begin 
preparations now to keep them out of town! Come with me! This 
is the frontline of operations! That's all! Prepare 
immediately!

[The cadets goes out to confront the thieves at Magic City 
Gariland.]


                   -- Magic City Gariland --
                   =========================

Thief: What's this? Just a bunch of kids! What luck! OK, all 
we have to do is kill these kids! Then, we can escape! Don't 
you worry! We'll kill every one of you!

Delita: Ramza, watch out! Don't rush them!

Ramza: Don't patronize me, Delita! I'm also a Beoulve!!

Thief: Beoulve!? THE Beoulve family!? So, you must be cadets 
from the military academy! Snot-nosed little nobles!!

Ramza: Silence! Surrender or die in obscurity!!

Thief: What can a bunch of kids like you do? Buncha spoiled 
punks like you'll never beat us!!

[Ramza quickly runs at an inexperienced enemy squire and 
deflects a blow, making the inexperienced squire reeling back 
into the midst of the battlefield. One of the cadets stabs the 
inexperienced squire from the back leaving three enemy squires 
and one enemy chemist. Delita slashes wildly on the 
battlefield with his sword cutting down a surprised enemy 
squire. The other cadets struck their sword on the remaining 
two squires. Ramza realizing the only left chemist, hurls up 
his broad sword and struck down his sword on the chemist's 
neck.]

Ramza: Why do you continue committing acts like robbery? You 
wouldn't have died this way if you'd led an honest life.

[Victorious at Magic City, Ramza and the other cadets rests. 
Ramza remembers his father's death...]


                         =-= Past =-=


                  Having attained the highest 
                   rank of Heavenly Knight, 
                  brave Balbanes was facing 
                       his last days...

                  The end of the 50 Year War
                    The Beoulve Residence


[Balbanes Beoulve, renowned hero of the Fifty Year War, has 
been bedridden for 2 years due to illness. The sight of his 
father ill in bed was unbearable for his three children.]

Balbanes: How goes......the battle?

Zalbag: Through swift action we were able to recover Limberry. 
It's only a matter of time before the Ordalia army leaves 
Zeltennia. Don't worry.

Lord Dycedarg: The secret messenger sent to Count Lenario has 
returned. Count Lenario has agreed to your plan.

Balbanes: Good...then, at last... this long war... will 
finally come to an end.

Alma: Father...

[Alma starts to cry.]

Balbanes: Don't cry...my daughter...

Zalbag: Where is Ramza? Just when we need him most!

Balbanes: Dycedarg, Zalbag... my beloved sons... Take care of 
Ramza. He may be your half brother, but he is my own flesh.

[Ramza comes in running into the room.]

Ramza: Father!!

[Ramza comes near to his father's bed.]

Dycedarg: Lower your voice.

Balbanes: I'm glad you came... Let me...look at you...

Ramza: Father...

Balbanes: It has been a long time... You've become a fine 
man... You start at the Academy...in spring, don't you?

Ramza: .........

Balbanes: Listen, Ramza...... A Beoulve has served the royal 
family for generations. The warrior spirit is in us. Never 
shame your name... never tolerate in justice... Living true to 
your heart is the warrior's way......the Beoulve way.

Ramza: I understand, father......

Balbanes: Delita's a good boy. He should serve you well... 
I've asked the dean to accept him into the Academy. It shocked 
the dean a bit. He will serve you well... Treat him well...

Ramza: Y, yes......father.........

Balbanes: Take good care of Alma... Become a fine knight... 
Ramza. 

[Balbanes dies.]

----------------------------

[After resting, Ramza and his party heads for Igros. On their 
way to Igros Castle the cadets comes across some thieves. A 
swordsman was attacked by the Death Corps on the Mandalia 
Plains. He was attacked while heading for Igros. The Marquis 
was abducted, that man was the only survivor.]


                     -- Mandalia Plains --
                     =====================

Thief (1): Still breathing. What'll we do?

Thief (2): Don't be stupid. We just need to get the Marquis.

Thief (1): Right. Hey, don't blame us. Blame fate.

[The party arrives at the scene.]

Thief (2): Wha? Damn! The Hokuten knights!

Delita: Death corps? They attacking someone?

Ramza: 1. Our duty is to destroy the Death Corps.
       2. Save him is our priority.
       ------------------------------------------


Ramza: < 1. Our duty is to destroy the Death Corps. >
-----------------------------------------------------

Ramza: Get them!

Delita: Are you mad Ramza? Leaving him stranded!?

Ramza: Is this how you fight?

Delita: ...I'll save him.

- Continues with the game -


Ramza: < 2. Saving him is our priority. > 
-----------------------------------------

Ramza: Don't disgrace the knights! Saving him comes first!
 
- Continues with the game -


Algus: Reinforcements? Thank God!

[Algus thinking quickly, grabs a sword from the nearby enemy 
squire and sweeps the sword, cutting the enemy squire down. 
The enemy thief draws a small knife but takes an arrow on his 
back from one of the cadet. Delita runs forward, plunging his 
sword into an enemy squire's back. Ramza was facing a squire 
alone, the squire goes in for a quick blow on Ramza, which 
Ramza easily counters the blow and stabs the squire. One of 
the cadet wizards casts Fire on the Red Panther burning him 
down.]

 
- If Algus did not die during the battle -

Ramza: Are you OK?

Algus: Barely... But the Marquis...

Ramza: Marquis? You mean Marquis Elmdor?

Algus: Yeah. Who're you?

Ramza: We're military cadets. I think we can help. Tell us 
more.

- Continues with the game -


- If Algus died during the battle -

Ramza: Still breathing. Let's save him!

- Continues with the game -


Algus: I'm Algus...of the Limberry Aegis Knights......

Delita: A knight...?

Algus: ...I mean, a cadet... like you all.

Ramza: I'm Ramza Beoulve. This is Delita, a good friend.

[Algus looks at Ramza in disbelieve.]

Algus: Beoulve...? ...of the Hokuten? Excellent! How lucky I 
am!

Ramza: ???

Algus: I beg you, please help me save the Marquis!

Delita: What are you talking about?

Algus: The Marquis is still alive! They've kidnapped him! He 
will be killed, if we don't act fast! I don't know what I 
would do if...... So, please! Help me! Please!!

Delita: Relax. We don't know for sure if he'll be killed. 
There must be some reason for Death Corps to take him. They 
might have made some demands.

Ramza: Besides, there is nothing we can do. The Marquis was 
kidnapped, and I'm sure by now everyone at Igros Castle is up 
in arms. 

Delita: First, we should go to Igros and report.

Algus: All right. Let's do that.

[Ramza, Delita, Algus and the others reaches Igros Castle. 
Ramza heads for the castle. Dycedarg meets with Ramza and his 
friends and decides to have dinner with them.]


- Inside Igros Castle -
-----------------------

Dycedarg: ...I hear you beat the first troops. I'm proud to be 
your brother. The senior statesmen spoke highly of you. You 
are truly descended from Beoulves.

Ramza: ...Thank you.

Dycedarg: Aren't you happy?

Ramza: Oh, yes, I am. Thank you for the kind words....You 
might have heard about the enemy attacking Elmdor's carriage 
and kidnapping him. What would you have us do?

Dycedarg: I've already had Zalbag send out a search party. 
They'll probably demand ransom... if he's still alive.

[Algus stands up from his chair and bows his head.]

Algus: Highness. Please let me have 100 soldiers!

Dycedarg: .........

Algus: I beg you. Let me avenge my comrades murder!

Dycedarg: I said it's taken care of. Didn't you hear me? 
Gallione isn't any place for you. Let us handle it.

Algus: B..ut!

Dycedarg: Think of your rank, Algus! Have you forgotten you're 
just a soldier without rank of Knighthood?

Algus: Urrrgh......

[Algus sits down.]

Dycedarg: I want you to guard Igros Castle. It shouldn't be so 
difficult. "Danger" probably won't get this far.

[After having dinner Ramza, Delita and Algus goes outside the 
castle's courtyard.]


- Igros Castle's Courtyard -
----------------------------

Algus: ...My family was once respected like the Beoulves. My 
grandfather was captured during the Fifty Year War... He sold 
his friends out to the enemy to save himself. But, as he left 
the castle, he got stabbed in the back by a cadet just like 
myself. One of my grandfather's friends managed to escape and 
spread the story around. Of course my father didn't believe 
it, but everyone else did, they deserted him...

[Algus picks up a rock and throws it into the flowing river.]

Algus: Rank...Dycedarg would never meet with someone like 
me...

Voice of a young girl: Delita!

Delita: Teta!

Ramza: Alma, Zalbag!

[Alma, Teta and Zalbag runs down to meet Ramza and Delita.]

Alma: Brother Ramza. You came back.

Ramza: Long time no see, brother.

Zalbag: I heard how you beat the thieves in Gariland. That's 
worthy of a Beoulve. I'm sure father would've been pleased 
with you.

Ramza: ......Thank you.

Zalbag: Heh...haven't changed a bit. You don't like that much, 
eh? Delita, you look good. I heard about your role also. Just 
look how happy Teta is.

Teta: Delita, I'm glad you're doing well.

Delita: And you also. How is your schooling?

Teta: Fine. Everyone is so nice to me...

Zalbag: I'd like to talk more with you, but I must hunt down 
some thieves. Pardon me.

Ramza: I pray for your victory.

[Zalbag turns around and waves his hand. He walks up and 
suddenly stops.]

Zalbag: ...The Death Corps have demanded a ransom.

Algus: What!?

Zalbag: ...I can't understand it. The Death Corps claim to be 
anarchists, but they only rob and hurt the nobility. It's hard 
to believe they would kidnap the Marquis just for money.

Algus: Absurd! Why they're nothing more than knaves, I say!

Zalbag: The messenger we sent still hasn't returned. He's 
probably in trouble, but the nobles say there's no need to 
search for his whereabouts.

Ramza: Where was he when you last heard from him?

Zalbag: A trade city called Dorter, east of 
Gallione......Guarding a castle is boring work. Don't you 
think?

[Zalbag leaves.]

Delita: Teta, I'm sorry. We must go.

Teta: Don't worry about me. Just take care of yourself.

[Delita hugs Teta.]

Delita: Don't worry. I'll come back safely...so be a good 
girl. Well then, let's go, Algus.

[Delita, Teta and Algus leaves. Ramza tries to follow them but 
is interrupted by Alma.]

Alma: What Teta said is not true. Actually.........

Ramza: Something wrong with Teta?

Alma: She has been picked on at school because of her rank.

Ramza: .........

Alma: Sorry...I shouldn't have worried you like that. Teta 
will be OK. I'll be there for her. Trust me.

Ramza: I'm not worried. But don't you overdo it.

Alma: You're the one going too far to meet their expectations. 
Just be yourself and don't be restricted by your name.
 
Ramza: You sound like our mother. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha.

[Ramza goes off to follow the others.]

Alma: Ramza......

[The party leaves Igros castle and heads for Dorter. The party 
encounters some monsters on their way.]


                      -- Sweegy Woods --
                      ==================

Algus: What rotten luck. Meeting monsters in a place like 
this.

Delita: Don't gripe, Algus. It's better than guarding a 
castle.

Algus: This is a matter of life and death. How can you say 
that?

[The monsters slowly approaches the party.]

Ramza: Enough! Here they come!!

[The party easily kills the monsters.]

Ramza: Just through this forest, and we're almost to Dorter.

[The cadets comes to Dorter.]


- Slums in Dorter -
-------------------

Fencer: ....I said I don't know!

Knight: Don't lie to me! I know what you did! Where is Gustav? 
Where!?

Fencer: I......don't know......

Knight: Where is the Marquis? Where are you hiding him? 
Speak!!

[The knight pulls the man up by his throat and throws him in a 
nearby puddle. The knight draws out his sword and points the 
tip of his sword at the man.]

Knight: This is your last chance...... Where is he?

Fencer: D....desert......

Knight: I see...in "Rat Cellar"...

[Ramza and the others comes to see what's happening.]

Ramza: Wait!!

[The knight turns around and looks at the party.]

Knight: Damn, the Hokuten.

[The knight quickly disappears into the darkness.]

Algus: Looks like our trip here was well worth it.

Delita: I've seen him somewhere...

Ramza: Do you know him, Delita?

Delita: I saw him at the end of the Fifty Year War in Igros...

[Fencer's men shows up to assist the man.]

Ramza: I guess we must fight. Eaaagggghh!!

Delita: Now I remember! His name is Wiegraf. Leader of a 
volunteer army, a corps of Death Knights.

Algus: What? .... You mean he's the.....?

Delita: Yes... The leader of the Death Corps.

[Ramza slashes down an enemy wizard with a mighty blow, while 
Algus cuts down an archer. One of the Ramza's monk broke the 
second wizard's jaw with an incredible wave fist. A cadet 
embeds a crossbow bolt on the archer. Ramza knocks Fencer's 
sword out of his grasp and points the tip of his sword at the 
knight's face. The party captures Fencer the knight.]


- In a room -
-------------

Algus: You must be the Death Corps. Where is the Marquis? 
Where is he being held? Tell us!! 

[The man is silent.]

Algus: Your boss, Wiegraf was just here. Where did he go!?

[The knight doesn't speak a word.]

Algus: Y, you bastard! Say something!!

[Algus kicks him on the stomach, grabs his hair up and tries 
to hit him.]

Ramza: Stop! Algus!

Algus: Damn.

[Algus lets the man's hair go.]

Algus: ...Listen carefully. In a moment, the Hokuten will 
begin to slaughter you. That's right, each of you're going 
straight to hell. Being a thief sure pays, huh? But you're 
lucky. You tell us where Wiegraf is going, and I'll let you 
live, OK?

Fencer of Death Corps: I don't know a damn thing.

[Algus kicks him hard on the face.]

Algus: Watch your language! Never talk to nobles like that!

Fencer: We're...not...thieves.

Algus: What did you say!?

Fencer: ...Nobles never change. You think we aren't human. We 
risk our lives in the War for this country...... But you 
dumped us afterward. How are we different? Birth? Status? What 
the hell's rank?

Algus: You kidnap people for ransom! So don't act so great!!

Fencer: ...Kidnapping the Marquis was not Mr. Wiegraf's plan.

Algus: !?

Fencer: We'd never kidnap a VIP.... for money....

Ramza: Then, who? Who kidnapped Elmdor?

Fencer: .........

Algus: Talk! If it wasn't you, then who else would do it?

Fencer: .....Gustav.

Algus: Gustav? Who the hell is he?

Delita: Gustav Margueriff... Captain of the "Death Corps".

Algus: So it WAS you all!

Fencer: No. We're fighting to beat you! We're proud that we 
fight for equality... We're different from Gustav!

[Algus kicks the man again on the face.]

Algus: Proud? Bastards!!

Ramza: Enough, Algus!

Algus: So, where is this Gustav?

Fencer: .... 'Sand Rat Cellar'.

Algus: Sand ra-a-a-ts?

Delita: Algus may not know what they are since he's not from 
here. 'Sand Rats' only inhabit the Zeklaus Desert north of 
Dorter.

Algus: !?

Ramza: Was there a village between Dorter and Zeklaus Desert?

Delita: Not anymore. But there is a place where desert people 
used to gather...

Ramza: ......Gustav and the Marquis may be there.

Delita: Yes, probably.

Algus: What's that mean??

Ramza: 'Cellar' means a rat's nest.

Algus: !?

[The party heads for the Cellar.]


- Desert of the Sand Mouse -
----------------------------

Death Corps Knight: Hey, did you hear? The Hokuten are moving.

Archer: So I heard. What's going to happen to us?

Knight: Forget the Corps and run before we get killed.

Soldier: We'll die anyway even if we follow Wiegraf.

Knight: Exactly. If we get a ransom for the Marquis like 
Gustav planned, we can get outta this misery.

[The party arrives.]

Guard: Oh, God!! The Hokuten!!

Ramza: Let's get the guard first, before the others find us!!

[The cadet's archer sends an arrow from his bow hitting one of 
the enemy knight's heads. Another cadet casts Fire2, sending 
one archer and a monk to the ground. One of the enemy knights 
secretly crawls behind Ramza and attacks him from the back. 
Ramza saw the incoming blow with the corner of his eye and 
swung his sword backwards, piercing his chest hard. An enemy 
monk burst a hit on Ramza's face. Laughing at Ramza the monk 
turned his head, just in time to see the sword of Delita 
heading straight for his neck. Algus hurls a blow on the last 
knight. The knight falls down on the ground, dead. Victories 
at the "Desert Rat Hole", the party searches for Marquis.]


- Shack -
---------

Wiegraf: Gustav, why don't you give up?

Gustav: Your revolution can never succeed!! What we need is 
food and a place to sleep, not ideas! And we need it now!!

Wiegraf: You only see the present. You have to fix the basics! 

Gustav: And you think you'll do that? I don't think so, 
Wiegraf. Never!

[Wiegraf steps forward to make a strike.]

Wiegraf: Is that all you want to say? Gustav, good-bye.

[Gustav runs in full speed and tries to score a blow on 
Wiegraf first. Gustav attacks but Wiegraf counters the attack 
and sees the opening. In one motion he stabs his sword 
straight through Gustav's chest.]

Gustav: Ugh...u...

[Gustav's sword falls down from his hand. Gustav looks down. 
Wiegraf pulls out his sword from Gustav's chest. Blood spills 
out and Gustav falls down on the ground, dead. Ramza, Delita 
and Algus comes inside the shack.]

Ramza: Wiegraf!!

[Algus sees Marquis lying on the floor.]

Algus: Marquis!!

[Algus tries to free Marquis but is stopped by Wiegraf. 
Wiegraf points his sword at Marquis.]

Wiegraf: Freeze!

Algus: You bastard!!!

Delita: Stop it, Algus.

Wiegraf: The Marquis is all right. Take him back to Igros.

Ramza: What?

Wiegraf: Kidnapping wasn't our goal. We never stoop to such 
acts. You can have the Marquis, if you just let me go...well?

Algus: Don't trifle with us! You can't beat us!

[Delita pulls back Algus.]

Delita: Stop it, Algus. He's serious!

[The three goes over to Elmdor while Wiegraf goes near to the 
door.]

Elmdor: Ugnn..n....

[Wiegraf quickly leaves the room. Algus tries to chase Wiegraf 
but Delita blocks his way.]

Delita: Let him go, Algus!!

Algus: Why do you stop me!

Delita: The Death Corps will destroy itself! Don't risk it!

Algus: ...Ughh!!

[Ramza helps Marquis.]

Ramza: He's all right. Weakened, but no serious wounds.

Delita: Let's go back to Igros...

[After saving Marquis the party heads back to Igros.]


- Inside Igros Castle -
-----------------------

Dycedarg: What happened? Why did you go to Zeklaus Desert?

Ramza: ...................

Dycedarg: Explain to me......

Delita: I forced Ramza to go with me.

Dycedarg: Is that true, Ramza? Delita forced you to go?

Ramza: .....No, it was my decision. Not Delita's.

Delita: Ramza's lying. I was the one to......

Ramza: No need to protect me. I decided to ignore an order!

Dycedarg: If everyone acted lawlessly, how could "law" exist? 
We Beoulves must show the importance of observing the "law" as 
the Knights rule. Are you trying to ruin the Beoulve name?

Ramza: ......I'm sorry, brother.

A man's voice: That's enough, Dycedarg.

[A wealthy man enters the room. Delita, Ramza and Algus falls 
down on their knees before the man.]

A well dressed man: He was a great help rescuing the Marquis. 
I know young soldiers are eager to succeed. So were we.

Dycedarg: Don't spoil him. There's a line between right and 
wrong.

Larg: So, you are Dycedarg's younger brother.....relax. You 
look exactly like the late General Balbanes... A fine-looking 
young man. I'm sure that youthful energy didn't come from just 
guarding the castle.....

Dycedarg: The mission is nearly done. I'll allow you to join. 
We'll attack some of the thieves' hideouts at once. You choose 
one of them.

Ramza: ... Yes.

[The three leaves the room in silence. Larg walks over to a 
nearby window.]

Dycedarg: I'm sorry.

Larg: Don't apologize, Dycedarg. After all, Gustav wasn't much 
of a soldier. The plan couldn't be changed after the Marquis 
was kidnapped in Gallione.... Besides, he did save the 
Marquis's life. They must accept our demands. Your brother's 
actions turned the tide for us...

Dycedarg: The King doesn't have much time to live......... We 
must hurry......

Larg: Yes, I'm counting on you, my friend....

[The extermination of the Death Corps was near. The party 
heads to Thieves Fort.]


                      -- Thieves Fort --
                      ==================

Miluda: Communication with the main unit's been cut off. It's 
over.

Death Corps Priest: No way! It's not over yet!

Priest: I agree. It continues until the nobles apologize to 
us!

Miluda: My brother.... His views are too optimistic.

Death Corps Guard: Enemy attack!!

[The cadets arrives at Thieves Fort to exterminate the 
remaining Death Corps.]

Algus: Ramza helped me save the Marquis. I'll stay on till the 
end!
 
[A thief goes running towards Delita. Just as Delita draws his 
sword, the thief attacks. Delita barely manages to parry the 
blow, but the tip of the thief's sword struck free on Delita's 
left arm. In pain, Delita struck hard with his sword through 
the thief's throat. Meanwhile, Ramza was delivering attacks 
after attacks, the enemy thief found the powerful blows hard 
to block and soon saw his destiny. Algus also struck his sword 
on one of the thieves, the thief screamed his last scream and 
fell on the ground.]

Miluda: Who do you think you are!? We're not animals! We're 
human, just like you! There's no difference among us other 
than our families! You ever been hungry? With only soup to eat 
for months? Why do we have to suffer? Because you nobles 
deprive us our right to live!

Algus: Human? Hmph, ridiculous! From the minute you were born 
you had to obey us! From the second you were born you were our 
animals!!

Miluda: Says who!? That's nonsense! Who decided all this?! 

Algus: It's the Will of Heaven!

Miluda: Heaven? God would never say such things! In his eyes, 
all are equal! He'd never let this happen! Never!

Algus: Animals have no God!!

Miluda: !!!!

Delita: Ramza, Is she really our enemy....?

[Miluda runs toward Ramza. Ramza parries her attacks and 
knocks her sword away. The party surrounds the enemy.]

Ramza: Lay down your swords. Surrender and we'll spare you.

[Realizing that she can't win, Miluda and her men gives up.]

Miluda: Go ahead, kill us then. We're just animals-Kill us!

Ramza: You hate us that much...?

Algus: Ramza Kill her, now! She's your enemy! An enemy of the 
Beoulves! Understand? Your enemy! She's a loser. Who's lost 
sight of life! Losers cannot remain alive! If we don't kill 
her, she'll kill us! We can't coexist! Kill her, Ramza! With 
your own hands!!

Delita: Ramza, I don't see why she's our enemy...

Algus: What did you say? Are you mad, Delita?

Delita: She's not an animal...... She's human just like us...

Algus: Are you betraying us!? You, too....!?

Miluda: Oh, sympathy is it? Despicable creatures. You're my 
enemy as long as you belong to the Beoulves. Don't forget 
it......

[Miluda disappears into the shadows, holding her wounds.]

Ramza: Delita...., we are ......?

Algus: Geez, what's wrong with you?  


                     Meanwhile, at Igros, 
                     capital of Gallione, 
                       'Beoulve castle'


[The Pirates attacks the Beoulve mansion. Knowing the majority 
of the troops were out killing Death Corps. The Corps 
objective was to kill Dycedarg, a major influence on Larg. The 
attack was going smoothly when Zalbag arrives and spoils the 
plan.]


                      -- Beoulve castle --
                      ====================

Teta: Let go! Stop it, let go of me!!

[A thief riding a chocobo leaves off with Teta.]

Golagros: Hurry up!

[Another thief comes out of the castle holding Alma's hand.]

Alma: Ouch! Let go of my hand! Brother!!

[Zalbag comes in rushing from inside the castle and kills the 
thief with a single blow using his sword.]

Golagros: Damn... That's it!!

[The knight flees away with his chocobo.]

Zalbag: Are you all right, Alma?

Alma: I'm OK, but Teta isn't.

Zalbag: Yes, I know.

[Dycedarg comes out holding his wound. Alma helps the wounded 
Dycedarg.]

Zalbag: Brother!!

Dycedarg: I, I'm all right...... What about ...Alma....?

Alma: Yes. I'm fine. What an awful wound....

Dycedarg: I never thought they'd come here. They're after me.

Zalbag: Five people were killed, and Teta was kidnapped.

Dycedarg: After them....Leave no stone unturned until you find 
them.

Alma: Please don't talk anymore!

Dycedarg: Death Corps......bastard.

[Dycedarg faints.]

Alma: Are you all right!?

Zalbag: Hey! Anybody there!? 

[The troop comes to Igros and finds out what has happened.]


- Inside Beoulve castle -
-------------------------

[Injured from the Death Corps attack, Dycedarg lay in his 
bed.]

Dycedarg: I heard you destroyed the enemies' hideout...Good 
job. Leave the rest to Zalbag and relax for a while... No need 
to worry.... It's not that bad of a wound.

Ramza: Teta.... What about Teta....?

Dycedarg: As soon as we find their base, Zalbag will attack in 
force.

Ramza: W, What...!?

Dycedarg: Death Corps is falling apart. Deserters are down to 
a few. Wiegraf will be caught... It's just a matter of time.

Ramza: Teta.... Are you deserting Teta?

Dycedarg: Don't worry. Everything's all planned. We won't 
attack until Teta's returned. For certain. I'd never abandon 
Teta. She's like a sister to me.


- Outside of Beoulve castle -
-----------------------------

[Delita goes outraged over his kidnapped sister. Ramza tries 
to stop Delita.]

Ramza: Wait, Delita. Where are you going? Just calm down! 

Delita: Calm down? Are you kidding? I can't calm down!

Ramza: You don't know where she is! Don't waste your time!

[Delita pulls up Ramza by his shirt.]

Delita: Waste my time!? She is my only sister!!

Ramza: Remember, Dycedarg said... He'd never abandon Teta... 
So....don't .... Ugh...I...can't breath.

[Delita puts Ramza down.]

Delita: I'm sorry, Ramza. Are you all right....?

Ramza: Y... yeah.......cough...cough...

[Algus comes out from the castle.]

Algus: Never believe in "never".

Ramza: You mean my brother's lying?

Algus: If I were him, I'd never save a common girl.

Delita: What did you say......?

Algus: I said I won't send troops to save you, commoners!!

Delita: How dare you!!

[Delita punches Algus on the face. Algus goes off flying. He 
holds his cheek after falling on the ground. Ramza holds 
Delita's arms.]

Ramza: Stop it! Delita!

Delita: Let go of me! Damn you! Let go!!

Algus: Heh! Commoners are all alike. You'll never be nobles! 
Delita, You don't belong here! Understand, rascal!?

Delita: Damn you!!

Ramza: Enough! Delita! And you, too, Algus!

[Algus stands up.]

Algus: Ramza, don't you see? He's not one of us. You see, 
Ramza, we nobles can't live with them.

Ramza: Lies! He's my good friend. We're like brothers!

Algus: That's exactly the point. Don't act like friends. You 
are the son of a distinguished family. You cannot be with him. 
I'm sure your brothers would agree with me!

[Delita pushes Ramza aside.]

Delita: Not all nobles are like you! I trust Ramza!

[Delita leaves.]

Ramza: Get lost! I never want to see you again!!

Algus: Don't say that. We're friends, aren't we?

[Ramza being serious, steps forward.]

Algus: I won't say it again! Get lost!!

[Algus walks off and stops.]

Algus: Their base is at Fort Zeakden. I heard it from your 
brother. There are several cordons, so you can't attack them 
from the front, of course. The only way is to attack from the 
rear. Well...do your best, you spoiled-rotten boy.

Ramza: Get out!!

[Algus leaves. The party heads for Fort Zeakden. While heading 
for Fort Zeakden, in a sunset field, Delita and Ramza stops.]


                     -- Mandalia Plains --
                     =====================

Delita: Beautiful. Somewhere Teta's watching the same sunset. 

Ramza: ....Don't worry, Delita. I'm sure she is OK.

Delita: ....I've felt out of place for a long time.

Ramza: Are you thinking about what Algus said?

Delita: I guess there are things you can't change, no matter 
what.

Ramza: Don't say that. If you put effort into it...

Delita: Could I be a general if I tried hard enough? I want to 
rescue Teta on my own, but I can't do a thing. I'm 
'useless'....

Ramza: ...........................

[Delita picks up a reed.]

Delita: Remember how father taught us to play that reed flute?

[Delita begins to play the reed flute. Ramza picks up a reed. 
The two plays the reed flute, a skill they learned from 
Balbanes.] 


I------------------------------------------------------------I
|-- =-=-= =-= =-=-= =-= =-=- NEWS -=-= =-= =-=-= =-= =-=-= --|
|                                                            |
|                  The condition of Omdoria                  |
|                  ========================                  |
| The rumor of the failing health of King Omdolia is         |
| spreading throughout the capital. Since his collapse       |
| during Orinas' birthday celebration, we've been told that  |
| he was on his way to recovery, but the discouraged faces   |
| of his close advisors tell otherwise. With an official     | 
| guardian for the Prince yet to be named, the Queen is      | 
| certain to clash with the elder statesmen over his         | 
| guardianship.                                              |
|                                                            |
|                                                            |
|              Destruction of the Death Corps!?              |
|              ================================              |
| It was revealed that the main group in the Death Corps the | 
| Thieves, were close to annihilation due to the joint       |
| effort by the four groups of the Knights. According to     | 
| official reports, the total number of thieves apprehended  |
| by the plan added up to approximately 700, and the death   | 
| toll was approximately 3000. Wiegraf, the leader of the    | 
| Death Corps is yet to be apprehended, but the Hokuten      |
| stated that it was just a matter of time.                  |
|                                                            |
|                                                            |
|               Attempt murder of Lord Dycedarg              |
|               ===============================              |
| The Thieves, major players in the Death Corps, are close   |
| to annihilation, but the Knights haven't been able to      | 
| capture their leader, Wiegraf, yet. Although the Hokuten   |
| are in pursuit of the remaining members. An assault on a   | 
| high official occurred at the mansion of the well-known    |
| and respected Beoulve family. The target seems to have     |
| been Prince Larg's assistant, Dycedarg. Unfortunately, the | 
| assassination attempt was unsuccessful.                    |
|                                                            |
I------------------------------------------------------------I



                     -- Lenalia Plateau --
                     =====================

[The party arrives at Lenalia Plateau and meets with Miluda 
and her troops again.]

Miluda: It's blocked here, too... There is no way out.

Death Corps Soldier: Forget it. We might as well surrender....

Miluda: I'd rather die here than get taken prisoner!! Besides, 
if we get caught here, we'll be executed! Fighting is the only 
way out!

Delita: Where is Wiegraf?! Where did you hide Teta!?

Miluda: Teta? You mean that Beoulve, Golagros took hostage?

Delita: Teta's my sister! She has nothing to do with them! 
It's pointless to hold her hostage! Please, return my sister!

Miluda: And what about you? Will you Nobles give back all you 
took from us? We're only asking you to return what you took 
from us in the first place. But no-you just keep taking! 
Forcing us to retaliate! Just give up! There's no reason to 
return her!!

Delita: I, I.....!!

[One of the enemy knight's runs down for a strike on a cadet. 
The cadet counter-attacks and injures the knight. A bolt finds 
the injured enemy knight's back. One of the cadet knight's 
runs at an enemy knight and breaks her sword using the 'Weapon 
Break' ability. Realizing she has no sword, the unarmed knight 
escapes. The enemy wizard casts Fire2 on Delita. Delita uses 
the 'Counter Magic' ability and burns down the enemy wizard. 
Ramza and Miluda goes head on, Ramza manages to take the upper 
hand by attacking with some powerful blow. Miluda finds the 
powerful blow hard to parry or counter.]

Miluda: I can't die now! Not during the revolution! I'm a 
Death Corps soldier!! I'll never run away!!

Ramza: Put the sword away, Miluda! No use fighting any longer! 
Let's put down our swords, stop fighting, and talk! There must 
be a solution to all this! Let's find it! I'll talk to my 
brother! No, I'll talk to Lord Larg! Trust me!!

Miluda: No more tricky smooth talk! I'm sick of your lies!!

Ramza: I'm not lying!! You say revolution......... Is a 
revolution necessary? Is it our fault? Are we making you 
suffer? What's the problem?

Miluda: Ignorance itself is a crime! What you think is right 
is only what you can see. But, that's not everything. It's not 
your fault. But I'll keep blaming you until there's a change! 
As long as you're a Beoulve, you're my enemy!

[Delita puts his sword through the enemy wizard's unarmed 
back. Miluda thinking that she would never surrender and 
realizing that the flow of the battle was not on her side, she 
runs straight for Ramza's sword and stabs herself.]

Miluda: B...Brother... I'm sorry...

[Miluda dies.]

Ramza: Why...? What went wrong?

Delita: Damn it, who the hell am I? Who...?

[In a small windmill at Fovoham, Golagros and Wiegraf, hid 
from the Hokuten.]


- In a Small Windmill -
-----------------------

Wiegraf: Why did you kidnap the girl?

Golagros: I needed a hostage to escape.

Wiegraf: If that was the case, you could've let her go later. 
What....now you, Golagros?

Golagros: You putting me with Gustav? Think. The Death Corps 
lost most of their men and now are surrounded by the Hokuten. 
She was our only ace in the hole to get us out of this. 
Because she's a Beoulve.

[Wiegraf and Golagros looks at Teta.]

Wiegraf: What good is escaping? Or were you even thinking 
that? Even if we do escape, we'll get caught sooner or later 
and be in their power! We must make it so our children don't 
have to go through what we did. A small stone may only make a 
small ripple at first, but someday it will be a wave. Even if 
we have to rust away here!

Golagros: So you would have us die?

Wiegraf: Not in vain. Take as many Nobles with you as 
possible!

Golagros: Ludicrous! We'll die like dogs!!

Wiegraf: No, there may be still be survivors at Fort Zeakden. 
If you join them, you may get something!

Golagros: They're probably dead already...

[A soldier comes inside and informs Wiegraf about Miluda's 
death.]

Wiegraf: What!? Miluda killed?! Miluda....

Soldier: It's a just a matter of time before the squad gets 
here. What should we do?

Wiegraf: Alright. Retreat!! You heard, Golagros. Go to Fort 
Zeakden. Leave the girl here!

Voice of a guard: They're here!! The Hokuten are here!

[The soldier rushes out.]

Wiegraf: Damn! Already? I'll stop them here! Golagros, you 
head for Fort Zeakden with others!

[Wiegraf walks out.]

Golagros: I'm not going... Now way I'm going to die!

[Golagros looks at Teta.]


- Windmill Shed - 
-----------------

[The squad arrives. They find Wiegraf waiting for them.]

Wiegraf: You...it was you... Did you kill Miluda? It was you 
cadets who killed my sister!

Ramza: She was Wiegraf's sister?

Wiegraf: Well then, I have no choice. I'll avenge my sister!!

Delita: Give Teta back!!

Wiegraf: Teta? Oh, that girl? So you're a Beoulve?

Ramza: He's not a Beoulve! I am!

Wiegraf: Then Golagros was wrong. But he is with you, correct?

Ramza: It doesn't matter who he is. You have his sister.

Wiegraf: Correct me if I'm wrong... Either way, the girl was 
to be released anyway. We had no intention of keeping her. But 
first things first! If you want the girl back, you'll have to 
beat me!!

[Trying to get Teta back, Delita jumps into the middle of the 
battlefield heading straight at Wiegraf. Wiegraf releases a 
Crush Punch on Delita, Delita goes down cold. Seeing this 
Ramza quickly goes for the rescue. On his way to Delita, Ramza 
sees two enemies blocking his way. Ramza counters the blows 
from the enemy and slashes down the throats of the enemy.]

Ramza: Put the sword down! No need to waste lives!

Wiegraf: Then, why did you kill her? Why Miluda?

Ramza: I had no intention of killing her! There are other ways 
than fighting. Can we talk?

Wiegraf: You still don't understand why we won't surrender! 
What good is talking anyway? Could you make something happen 
even if you wanted to? You couldn't, could you? And even if 
you did, your brothers wouldn't allow it!!

Ramza: My brothers don't want to fight!! Wiegraf, if you put 
the sword down, they'll listen!

Wiegraf: HA! This's absurd! Your brothers don't want to fight? 
You're so deluded!

[In rage over Delita and the false accusation of his brothers, 
Ramza runs straight for Wiegraf. Wiegraf quickly releases a 
Crush Punch on Ramza. Ramza manages to escape the Crush Punch 
and goes in for a strike. The strike successfully engages and 
injures Wiegraf.]

Wiegraf: Hmph-tough one, eh? Miluda, I'm sorry! But I can't 
die here!

Ramza: Wait, Wiegraf! Running away?

Wiegraf: Who do you think had Gustav kidnap the Marquis? Your 
brother, Dycedarg! And I'm sure Zalbag knows, too!

Ramza: Don't be ridiculous! Why would he do such a thing?

Wiegraf: Two lions are fighting for power after the king died! 
One is white lion, Larg. The other is black, Goltana. Both 
want to know who their allies are. But, it's hard to read 
strangers' minds. So, why not kill 'em all and bring in your 
own people? Gustav was deceived by Dycedarg's silk tongue and 
kidnapped the Marquis!

Ramza: Lies!! A Beoulve would never do such a thing!

Wiegraf: You should see for yourself! Goodbye Beoulve!

[Wiegraf vanishes.]

Ramza: Wait, Wiegraf!! Take that back!! 


- In a Small Windmill -
-----------------------

Delita: Teta! Where are you? Teta!

[Delita and Ramza comes in looking for Teta.]

Delita: I can't find her anywhere! Teta! Where are you!? 

[No sign of Teta.]

Ramza: Did Wiegraf lie to us!? Delita, let's go to Zeakden! 
Teta must be there.

Delita: What happened? What went wrong? Tell me, Ramza. Why 
did this have to happen to Teta?

[Delita falls down on his knee.]

Ramza: Delita...

[The remaining Death Corps members retreated to a snowy Fort 
Zeakden, only to find themselves trapped by the Hokuten. 
Golagros holds Teta as a shield.]


                      -- Fort Zeakden --
                      ==================

Golagros: Get out of here now! What if something happens to 
her? And don't do anything funny! There's tons of powder 
inside the fort! More than enough to blow all of you to hell 
and back! Got it? Then, get out!

Zalbag: The Hokuten will never be threatened by you!! 

[Ramza and Delita finally arrives at the scene.]

Ramza: Brother! Algus!!

[Delita sees Teta.]

Delita: Teta!!

Teta: Delita!!

Golagros: Get out! Now!!

Zalbag: Go on, do it!

Algus: Yes, sir! 

[Algus aims and shoots at Teta.]

Golagros: What's this?

[Algus shoots again. This time at Golagros, wounding him.]

Teta: Delita..................

Delita: Teta!!

[A Hokuten knight appears from the shadow behind Zalbag.]

Hokuten Knight: General Zalbag, more enemies are on the 
mountain path! There are about 50 of them. I've been informed 
one of them resembles Wiegraf!

Zalbag: Alright, I'll be right there. Take care of the rest, 
Algus.

Golagros: D...damn it!

[Golagros locks himself inside the fort.]

Delita: Teta!

Algus: Where are you going?

Delita: Algus! You bastard!!

Algus: You want to fight? Fine then, let's go!

Ramza: Brother...why...Teta...?

Algus: C'mon! Animals are animals! I'll prove it to you!!

[Algus merely whistles. His troop comes out of the shadows 
behind Algus.]

Ramza: Why, why are you doing this? Algus, why!?

Algus: It's your brother's orders. Please don't ask why. 
Besides, would you sacrifice the Hokuten pride, all for a 
common girl!?

Ramza: Teta is Delita's sister!!

Algus: It's about time you learned about 'difference'! 
Different birth, totally different life! It's fate! Neither 
should've been here! Should've been flower sellers somewhere! 
And what about you, Ramza? Why are you arguing with me? You're 
a traitor to Hokuten! 

Ramza: B...but, but, this is inexcusable!

Algus: You're such a spoiled child! How could someone like you 
be a Beoulve?

Ramza: I didn't have a choice!!

Algus: You're such a baby! Don't pamper yourself!! Beoulves 
are leaders of warriors. You have certain responsibilities as 
a leader! There are many things that only you can do! You must 
do them for those who can't!

Ramza: I don't want to live life just being used by others!!

Algus: Just being used? Don't talk rubbish!! Beoulves are used 
because of who they are! We ourselves have survived under 
their wing, used their protection! That's right. It's a give 
and take relationship! That's how you survived! Just being 
used? You've been using your "best friend", Delita!

Ramza: Me? Using Delita? Are you all right, Delita?

Delita: Leave me, Ramza! After Algus, you're next!

Ramza: Delita...

Algus: As a Beoulve, surely you know our mission!? Your 
mission took precedence even when I was attacked on Mandalia 
Plains!!

Ramza: Gmph!!

Algus: You saved me to use me.

Ramza: Ridiculous! I couldn't just leave someone in trouble!

Algus: Well next time you'd better! You never know if they'll 
be friendly or not!

Delita: Algus! You murdered Teta! I'll kill you! I swear it!

Algus: Angry, Delita? Angry because you're so utterly 
helpless? Know your limits! Commoners don't have power to 
change things! That's right, get angry! It's all you can do! 
Ha, ha, you deserve it!!

Delita: Is that it? Is that all, Algus?!

Algus: Don't be mad, Delita. You'll join her soon!

Delita: You won't confuse me! Nobody uses me!!

[In rage over Teta's death, Delita runs at Algus. Avoiding the 
knights Delita finds Algus. With swift motion Delita stabs 
Algus. Blood trickles from his body.]

Algus: Damn you...How could I be beaten by weaklings like you?

[Delita pushes his sword more deeper into Algus's body and 
then pulls out his sword. Algus dies miserably. His men 
realizing their leader is dead, vanishes. After the battle, 
Delita walks over to his sister, Teta, and holds her.]

Ramza: ..Delita.

[The dying Golagros ignites the fort's powder stores.]

Ramza: What was that!? An explosion?? Delita, it's dangerous! 
Come over here, quick!!

[Delita doesn't move an inch. The base blows knocking Ramza. 
Ramza stands up.]

Ramza: Delita!!

[The base completely gets destroyed by the explosion.] 


             I've taken my whole life for granted.
                    When it came down to it 
                   I dropped it all and ran.
 

                    ---=== PRESENT ===---


- Outside of Orbonne Monastery -
--------------------------------

Gafgarion: so, Ramza you know who kidnapped her?

Ramza: ............

[Agrias steps out of the monastery.]

Agrias: He's taking Princess Ovelia with him. Can't be that 
far.

Gafgarion: Are you going after him?

Agrias: Of course! I couldn't face the royal family unless I 
do!

Gafgarion: We won't help you. It's not in the contract!

Agrias: We don't need help from one who's not even a knight! A 
knight must fix his won mistakes. This is one of our 
responsibilities as guards! Lavian, Alice, let's go!

[Simon, the priest comes out.]

Agrias: Are you all right, Milord?

Simon: The Princess...how is she?

[Agrias shakes her head.]

Agrias: I'm very sorry. I swear I'll get her back!

Simon: ....No. You'd be in danger...

Agrias: Don't worry. I swear on my knight's honor I'll save 
her!

[Ramza steps forward.]

Ramza: I'll go, too! I won't be a burden!

Gafgarion: Are you crazy?! This's none of your business!

Ramza: I have to know! I must see it with my own eyes!

Gafgarion: You mean, that boy you saw?

[Ramza nods.]

Gafgarion: You're stubborn as a mule. Don't cry to me for help 
if something happens!


        ==============================================
        Chapter 2: THE MANIPULATER AND THE SUBSERVIENT
        ==============================================

I------------------------------------------------------------I
|-- =-=-= =-= =-=-= =-= =-=- NEWS -=-= =-= =-=-= =-= =-=-= --|
|                                                            |
|                    After the king's death                  |
|                    ======================                  |
| After the death of King Omdolia, Queen Ruvelia held the    | 
| reigns of the government. Any officials objecting her      | 
| policies were ousted, even elder statesmen. The Empress    | 
| openly criticized the Queen, and was banished to Bunahan,  | 
| never to return. It is said she was poisoned, but no proof | 
| was ever found.                                            |
|                                                            |
|                 Feud between Larg and Goltana              |
|                 =============================              |
| A political struggle erupted between the Prince Larg and   |
| the son of the late King. They are fighting for the        |
| regency, who will be guardian to the Prince. The Queen     |
| sided with Larg, but the officials who oppose her,         |
| including many Nobles, sided with Goltana. Lately, some    |
| say Prince Larg will officially be appointed Regent.       |
|                                                            |
|                   Peasant riot in Zeltennia                |
|                   =========================                |
| A large peasant rebellion has erupted in Zeltennia,        | 
| Goltana's territory. It was caused by the heavy damage     | 
| resulting from the previous years drought, as well as      | 
| growing unease over the rise in taxes after the War. A     |
| group of ex-Knights, known as the "Ryomoku" seemed to be   | 
| behind the rebellion. Baron Grims' Black Sheep are         | 
| struggling to suppress it.                                 |
|                                                            |
I------------------------------------------------------------I

[Rad, Alicia, and Lavian joins. The party heads to Dorter.] 


                    -- Dorter Trade City --
                    =======================

Knight: How about 500 gil per head?

Mercenary: Way too low. 2000. It's 2000 gil a head.

Knight: It would be easy to make all of you heretics, you 
know.

Mercenary: Is that a threat? ...How about 1000 gil?

[The knight shakes his head.]

Knight: 700. No more.

[The mercenary thinks.]

Mercenary: OK. Done deal.

Knight: They'll be here any minute. Kill all of them. 
Understand?

[The party arrives at Dorter.]

Knight: Ha, speak of the devil...... There they are. Get them!

[The knight quickly disappears into the shadows. The mercenary 
looks at the party.]

Mercenary: That's Gafgarion! Damn! 700 was too cheap!

[The mercenary throws his hat and whistles, calling his other 
mates.]

Gafgarion: Ambush? Going all out, huh?

Agrias: If you don't like it, you can leave!

Gafgarion: I usually don't do freebies, but I'll make an 
exception!

Agrias: You patronizing...

[Gafgarion releases a 'Night Sword' on one of the enemy thief. 
The 'Night Sword' quickly gets the job done. Agrias goes left 
and releases a 'Statis Sword' on the two enemy wizard. A big 
bulk of ice knocks the two wizard to the ground. One of them 
is dead and the other is frozen. Ramza feels the wind from a 
crossbow bolt brush by his hair. Ramza goes towards the first 
archer and attacks. The sword cuts through the cotton and the 
archer falls down on the ground. Gafgarion leaps out of the 
way as another bolt sails past him. Dashing at the archer he 
cuts the crossbow in two. Gafgarion lifts his sword and tries 
to kill the archer. The enemy thief quickly throws a knife at 
Gafgarion. Seeing the knife, Gafgarion quickly moves out of 
the way. The knife sails through the air and hits the unarmed 
archer. Laughing mockingly Gafgarion releases the 'Night 
Sword' at the thief. The thief lifts his arms to ward off the 
blow. But sadly it cuts straight through him.]

Agrias: There's no time to waste. We must hurry and rescue the 
Princess!

Gafgarion: Where are we going? Do you know where they went?

Agrias: There is only one place they could've escaped to! 
Impregnable fortress... Bethla Garrison.

Ramza: Bethla Garrison...

[On their way to Bethla Garisson..... Araguay Woods.]


                     -- Araguay Woods --
                     ===================

[A chocobo had accidentally wandered inside the goblin's 
forest. Six Goblins surrounds the poor chocobo.]

Black Goblin: Gob, gob! Gobgobgob!!

[The goblins closes in at the chocobo.]

Chocobo: W-Wark!!

[The party arrives.]

Goblin: Gob, gobu--!!

Agrias: A Chocobo? In this forest?

Gafgarion: Must be pretty stupid to wander into Goblin's 
forest!

Ramza: 1. We must leave now.
       2. Is he strong in a fight?


Ramza: < 1. We must leave now. >
--------------------------------

Ramza: We can't waste time here. We must get out of this 
forest....

Gafgarion: Right. We shouldn't do anything that doesn't make 
money.

Agrias: Sorry, Chocobo... We must save the Princess first. 
Forgive me.

-- Continues with the game --


Ramza: < 2. Is he strong in a fight? >
--------------------------------------

Ramza: Delita said wild Chocobos are stronger than tame ones. 
I wonder if he's strong in a fight?

Gafgarion: You want to help him, Ramza? No money in that!

Agrias: He may help us save the Princess...

-- Continues with the game --

[One of Ramza's archers gets an arrow on the surprised Black 
Goblin. The other goblins seeing their leaders death, runs 
away.]

Chocobo: W-Wark!!

Ramza: You seem alright.

Gafgarion: You're lucky. You ought to thank Ramza.


                     -- Zirekile Falls --
                     ====================

[The Chocobo joins the party. Upon their arrival at Zirekile 
Falls, the party sees Ovelia and Delita on a bridge surrounded 
by some Hokuten Knights.]

Hokuten Knight: It's over! Surrender! Turn the Princess over 
to us and we'll spare your life!

Delita: That's a bald faced lie! You want to kill her! Then 
after that you'll kill me for knowing the truth!

Knight: Ridiculous! We came to help the Princess! Why would we 
want to kill her? We can't let Goltana keep her!

Agrias: Princess Ovelia!!

Ovelia: Agrias!!

Knight: Great, here comes a crowd! Gafgarion! Kill them!! And 
do it now!!

Gafgarion: Don't know what's going on, but it's in the 
contract!

Agrias: Gafgarion, are you betraying us?

Gafgarion: Betraying you? C'mon, this is business. Our job is 
to kidnap the Princess 'unharmed'. The job is to kill you all 
and keep things quiet! 

Agrias: What are you getting at? This kidnapping's a sham?

Gafgarion: The Princess is in the way! The Princess should be 
next in line. If she's alive there'll be nothing but trouble!

[Delita hides the princess behind him.]

Delita: Since you're going to die, I'll let you help me... If 
the Princess's kidnapped and killed by Goltana, they'll be rid 
of her and his rivals. I'm sure that's how Prince Larg wrote 
the scenario. No, Dycedarg probably wrote it. Don't you agree, 
Ramza?

[Gafgarion steps forward.]

Gafgarion: Right, Ramza. Let's get them all!

Ramza: Another helpless sacrifice... No more! There must not 
be any more victims like Teta!!

Agrias: Princess Ovelia! We'll save you!!

Gafgarion: I don't think so!

Agrias: Are you sure of what you're doing? The Princess may be 
adopted but she's still royalty.

Gafgarion: I'm quite sure! Even Princesses can die for getting 
in the way! That's what 'royal blood' is about!

Agrias: Are you mocking the Pricness!?

Gafgarion: Get in the way, get killed. It's the same for 
commoners! The only difference is people like you pledging 
blind loyalty! Unless you make it to the top you're only gonna 
be used so you're better off dead!

Agrias: Then, I'll save her!!

Ramza: Delita! You're alive!

Delita: Imagine meeting you here! Are your brothers still 
running your life?

Ramza: Who knows? They never tell me anything? But uh, Delita, 
are you party to their plot?

Delita: Don't be foolish! I'm here to save the Princess to 
free her from those who are exploiting her!

Gafgarion: Don't lie to me! You were hired too, weren't you? 
You were hired to kidnap her for money! Don't play dumb!!

Delita: No, I'm not like you. It's not for the money!

Gafgarion : Then, who's getting in my way? A kid who heard the 
plan, and decided to save her for justice!? Who hired you? Who 
told you about the plan? Talk!

Delita: None of your business!
 
Ovelia: What are you? Ally or enemy?

Delita: Human, just like you!

Ramza: Did you know about this!?  Why, such a dirty trick!?

Gafgarion: Dirty!? There is no 'dirty' when it comes to money. 
I'm a mercenary. I have to finish the jobs I take. That's 
called being a pro!

Ramza: Why didn't you tell me? Why?

Gafgarion: If I'd told you, would you have stopped me? If I 
don't do this, someone else will! Get it? People die all the 
time without you knowing about it! That's reality! You think 
you can stop something you know nothing about? 

Ramza: But......but Does that make it right?

Gafgarion: No 'buts'! You're just a child who doesn't want to 
face reality! If you don't like it, try living without 
depending on someone else for a change! But don't come 
complaining to me if you can't!

[Seeing that Gafgarion has joined the enemy troops. Ramza 
strikes a blow on Gafgarion. Gafgarion tries to dodge the blow 
but Ramza's sword's tip cuts a deep wound.]

Gafgarion: Dammit! 

[Gafgarion vanishes. The princess moves to a save place. 
Delita releases 'Holy Explosion' on two knights. The powerful 
blow is too much for one of the knight and dies. The other 
gets confused. The confused knight slashes his sword on his 
nearby friend's neck. The other knight, thinking that he has 
betrayed them kills him cold-bloodedly. Ramza and Agrias kills 
off the remaining Hokuten Knights.]

Delita: Leave the Princess with me. It's better for her.

[Agrias blocks Ovelia behind her back.]

Ramza: Delita, what're you scheming?

Delita: Scheming? Don't be foolish. I'm telling the truth. 
Think about it. Where would you take her after making an enemy 
of Hokuten? Crack Hokuten troops will come here looking for 
you any time now. Just where the hell do you plan on escaping 
to?

Ramza: W, well, I...

Delita: Think carefully. The Princess knows this was Prince 
Larg's plan. The royal family is not on your side. So what 
about Goltana? No, he'd execute you just to clear himself.

Agrias: What would you do?

Delita: I'd do what you can't do.

Ramza: What do you mean?

Delita: I can't tell you...

[Delita turns around.]

Delita: I'll leave the Princess with you a little longer.

[Delita starts to walk away.]

Ramza: Delita, I'm glad I could see you again.

[Delita looks down and then up.]

Delita: Teta saved me...

Ramza: What?

Delita: Teta saved me back then...

Ramza: .........

[Delita walks off. Ovelia steps forward.]

Ovelia: Thank you, Delita.

Delita: See you again, Ramza.

[Delita disappears into the shadows.]

Agrias: Ramza, thanks for your support. But are you sure you 
want to make Hokuten an enemy?

Ramza: Don't worry. I've already decided. The question is, now 
what should we do? Like Delita said, nobody will help us...

Agrias: We can ask Cardinal Draclau for help...... Glabados 
church has jurisdiction over Lionel. They might be able to 
help.

Ramza: Hokuten has to be careful what they do in Lionel.... 
Let's go. It's the only place for us.

I------------------------------------------------------------I
|-- =-=-= =-= =-=-= =-= =-=- NEWS -=-= =-= =-=-= =-= =-=-= --|
|                                                            |
|                     Kidnap of the Princess                 |
|                     ======================                 |
| Princess Ovelia has been abducted from the Orbonne         | 
| Monastery. Witnesses say the Knight that disappeared had a | 
| crest of a Black Lion, believed to be those of the Nanten, | 
| under Prince Goltana. Goltana strongly denies any          | 
| involvement. He assembled a group of investigators to      |
| clear any suspicion, but due to the attempted supression   |
| of the rebellion in Zeltennia, it seems difficult.         |
|                                                            |
I------------------------------------------------------------I


                    -- Zaland Fort City --
                    ======================

[A man is being chased by the Bart Trading Company in Zaland 
Fort City.]

Fencer: You can't escape! Give it to us if you value your 
life!

Young man: What do you want? I don't know what you're talking 
about.

Fencer: Don't play dumb! Mustadio! Don't care about your 
father? Just give us the 'holy stone' and we'll return 
him....OK guys, get him!

[The man jumps up on top of the fort.]

Young man 'Mustadio': And you can tell Rudvich... If he lays a 
hand on father he'll never see the stone!

[The party comes at Zaland on their way to Lionel.]

Agrias: An argument! Someone's after that young man...

Ramza: 1. Don't want to get involved. 
       2. We have to help him!


Ramza: < 1. Don't want to get involved. >
-----------------------------------------

Ramza: I don't want to be involved, but I can't just leave 
him. I'll help him!


Ramza: < 2. We have to help him! >
----------------------------------

Ramza: He'll be killed, if we don't do something! Let's help!

[Mustadio aims and fires a few rounds from his gun. Killing 
one of the enemy wizard and injuring the enemy archer. The 
deadly Crush Punch from Agrias shot up from under the enemy 
knight's feet and killed him immediately. Several rounds of 
bullets from Mustadio's gun hits the injured archer's neck and 
another wizard's head. Ramza knocks a knight down, as he 
recovers from the attack, he watches in horror as the icy bulk 
of 'Statis Sword' shots down to his head. Ramza stabs his 
sword on the last menacing archer .] 

Ramza: Are you all right?

Mustadio: Yeah.......I think so. Thanks for helping me.


- In a room -
-------------

Mustadio: They were Troublemakers hired by Bart Company.

Agrias: Bart Company? The Importer?

Mustadio: You know them? They're not just traders. They're a 
criminal syndicate into everything from smuggling and slavery.

Ramza: Why were they after you?

Mustadio: You know why they call us mechanics?

[Ramza shakes his head.]

Agrias: I hear a 'lost civilization' is hidden under Goug.... 
When St. Ajora was alive, airships were in the sky, and human 
robots in town. But time passed, technology was lost, and no 
one knows if it ever really existed.

Mustadio: But the civilization must have existed. Parts from 
many airships and machines are buried under Goug. Mechanics 
are the ones who restore the 'past legacies'.

Ramza: That weird thing you used in the battle, was that one 
of the machines?

Mustadio: Oh, this? 

[Mustadio brings out his weapon.]

Mustadio: This is called a 'gun'. A metal 'bullet' is 
propelled by gunpowder. This is the most simple one. They say 
you used to be able put magic in it and shoot it.

Ramza: Hmm...

Agrias: Why's Bart Company after you?

Mustadio: You said you were going to see the Cardinal. He was 
a hero of the Fifty Year War. People in Lionel still think of 
him as a hero. My father, too. The Cardinal is the only one 
who can unite this country. I know he'd grant your wish. Then 
the princess would be safe.

Agrias: Yeah, and...?

Mustadio: Can you take me with you? I want to meet the 
Cardinal.

Agrias: Why?

Mustadio: To save my father! The Cardinal's the only one who 
can rescue him from Bart! But he wouldn't want to meet some 
mechanics like myself. So, please. Take me with you!

Agrias: You still hasn't told us why they're after you!

[Mustadio looks down.]

Mustadio: ...I can't tell you now.

Agrias: Then, we can't take you.

Mustadio: I beg you! Trust me! I must see the Cardinal!

[The princess enters the room. Ramza and Agrias kneels down.]

Ovelia: All right. You can come with us.

Mustadio: Really? Thank you, Highness!

Agrias: Remember! You're in the presence of a princess!

[Mustadio kneels down.]

Ovelia: It's all right. Please stand up.

[The three stands up.]

Agrias: All right, then. I trust you.

[Ovelia and the others rests on their way to Lionel Castle.]

Agrias: Princess Ovelia, see? Lionel Castle is over the 
mountain.

Ovelia: It's still far from this fort. I wonder if Cardinal 
Draclau will really help us?

Agrias: I hear the Cardinal is very loyal to the royal family. 
And right now, he's neutral in the dispute between Prince Larg 
and Prince Goltana. I'm sure he wouldn't defeat justice by 
turning you over to either one of them.

Ovelia: I hope so......

[Ovelia walks up to a tree and picks up a leaf.]

Agrias: Besides, he is a man of popularity at Glabados Church. 
They'll accept you if the Cardinal asks them.

Ovelia: I wish I weren't a princess.

[Ovelia drops the leaf.]

Agrias: Princess Ovelia......

[Ramza eavesdrops.]

Ovelia: I was always surrounded by the convent walls...and 
have only seen the sky through them. I don't think you know, 
but I was at another monastery before I went to Orbonne. Even 
after hearing about the adoption by the deceased king, I 
stayed there for a long time. No, I'm not complaining about 
that. Just......... People are dying because I'm the princess. 
It's so painful......

Agrias: Please don't blame yourself. It's not your fault. 
Those who are trying to take advantage of you are the ones to 
blame.

[Ovelia takes another leaf from the tree and drops it.]

Ovelia: I met a girl at Orbonne. She said she had also been 
living in the monastery since birth. We used to laugh at how 
similar our lives have been. ----Isn't it funny?

[The princess takes another leaf and drops it.]

Agrias: She was the daughter of the Beoulves, Miss. Alma, 
wasn't she?

Ovelia: She is my only friend...... I wonder if Cardinal 
Draclau would use me?

Agrias: ..................

Voice of Mustadio: Ramza! Where are you? Shall we go?!

[Mustadio comes out.]

Mustadio: What have you been doing here?

Agrias: How was it?

Mustadio: Fine. It doesn't seem like Hokuten has been here 
yet.

[Ovelia tries to play the reed flute.]

Ovelia: My friend taught me before, but I can't seem to do it 
right.

[Ramza walks over and takes a reed. He starts to show Ovelia 
how to play it.]

Ramza: This is how you do it.

Ovelia: Like this?

[Ovelia also plays the reed flute.]

Ovelia: There! I did it.

[They both starts to play the reed flute. The party heads to 
Lionel but encounters some mercenaries on their way.]


                      -- Bariaus Hill --
                      ==================

Rudvich Mercenary: I don't know who you are. But leave the boy 
with us! We don't want to fight! Hand Mustadio over and there 
won't be any trouble. OK?

Agrias: Why don't you leave quietly! Tell Rudvich we'll fight 
anyone who tries to use war to sway the people!

Mercenary: Then I guess we must take him by force! Here goes!!

[Mustadio fires a 'Leg Aim' from his gun and hits the enemy 
summoner. The side effect of Leg Aim quickly takes place and 
the shocked summoner is unable to move. Mustadio fires some 
few well-aimed bullets from his gun, killing two archer and a 
summoner. Ramza sticks his sword on one of the mercenary but 
gets a hard blow to his back. Careening from the attack, Ramza 
loses his balance and tumbles down the ledge. Ramza shoots his 
arms out just in time to grab a ledge. Ramza carefully climbs 
up the ledge and swing his sword towards the unarmed knights' 
back. Agrias's sword strikes home on the last mercenary.]

Ramza: Why are they after you? Will you explain?

Mustadio: Sorry... But I can't tell you now.

[Meanwhile at the office of Igros castle.]


- Office of Igros Castle -
--------------------------

Dycedarg: Do anything to capture Ovelia. The same goes for 
Agrias and the others. Kill them!

Gafgarion: What about Ramza?

[Dycedarg takes a cup and pours a wine.]

Dycedarg: He's a disgrace to the name Beoulve, and he's in our 
way. I left him alone because I thought he'd learn how harsh 
the real world is. I never thought he was that dense.

Gafgarion: Did his strong sense of justice come from his 
father?

Dycedarg: My father spoiled him. If he obeys orders, fine. If 
he resists, we have no choice...

[Dycedarg drinks the wine.]

Gafgarion: It's hard to believe his own brother said that. 
Sickening. But what if the Cardinal gets in our way? With the 
church supporting him, even the Prince couldn't do anything 
easily.

Dycedarg: I've already prepared for that. There's no need to 
worry.

Gafgarion: So that's that? The more I know, the worse you 
appear.
 
Dycedarg: If that's how you feel, then you'd best watch your 
tongue. Don't forget your head can be easily cut off.

Gafgarion: Hey, stop that. I'm your loyal servant. Remember 
I'm not stubborn like your little brother.

Dycedarg: Then, don't make any mistakes.

Gafgarion: Speaking of that, who did you order to kidnap 
Ovelia? When I was chasing her in Dorter, someone attacked me. 
What was that about?

[Dycedarg looks out the window.]

Dycedarg: They found the criminals in the monastery woods-
dead. Someone learned of our plan and is trying to stop us... 
Anyhow, as long as Ovelia is with Agrias, there'll be many 
chances to get her...

Gafgarion: I hope so.

[After going for days and nights the party finally comes at 
the gate of Lionel Castle.]


- The Gate of Lionel Castle -
-----------------------------

Lionel Castle Knight: Who are you? What do you want?

Agrias: I'm Agrias Oaks of the Lesalia St. Konoe Knights. I 
came from Orbonne to save the son of God, St. Ajora. Open the 
gate!

Knight: Saving the St. Ajora is the will of the high priest. 
The gate will open for he who would save the high priest. Open 
the gate!

[The gate opens and the party enters the castle. The party 
meets the Cardinal.]

Draclau: I understand your situation, Agrias. Moreover, I'll 
send a man to the High Priest in Murond. We'll do something to 
expose Larg's scheme, and keep the Princess from danger.

Agrias: Will High Priest Funeral help us?

Draclau: Don't worry, Agrias. I'm with you. You must be strong 
to make the Princess feel at ease. Make yourselves comfortable 
in this old castle until word comes from the holy land.

Ovelia: Thank you for your kindness.

Draclau: St. Ajora is with us. There's no need to worry. Young 
mechanic. I heard your wish too. I'll send troops to Goug, to 
destroy Bart Company.

Mustadio: Thank you.

Draclau: But, would you explain why they're after you two?

Mustadio: I...can't...

Draclau: That's all right... Is this it?

[The Cardinal brings out a shiny red stone.]

Agrias: What is that crystal? 

Draclau: Have you ever heard of the 'Zodiac Brave Story'?

Agrias: You mean that fairy tale, we used to hear in church?

Draclau: Here now! Are you saying the church lied?

Agrias: N-no, I didn't mean that...

Ovelia: Long ago, when the land was much different, 12 brave 
warriors fought against the Evil Lucavi who ruled the land. 
After a desperate battle, they sent Lucavi to Hades, and the 
land was peaceful. They each had crystals with zodiac signs on 
them, they were called "Zodiac Braves". Ever since then, 
whenever humans are attacked, the Braves come to save us.

Draclau: You're quite learned, Princess. Just as I expected.

Ovelia: Mr. Simon taught me at the Orbonne Monastery. He also 
said St. Ajora and the Braves saved Ivalice from chaos.

Draclau: We call the crystals, 'Holy Stones'. This very stone, 
is the legendary secret stone, the "Zodiac Stone".

Ovelia: I didn't think it really existed.

Draclau: They say its 'Divine Power' surpasses Lucavi's. I 
feel strange power, but it looks just like an ordinary crystal 
to me.

Ramza: What's wrong, Mustadio? You look pale.

Draclau: You saw the same stone underground Goug?

Mustadio: Many broken machine parts are buried there. But if 
the stone gets near the machines, they start to howl.

Draclau: Bart Company's after the stone, right?

Mustadio: I don't know what power the stone has... But Rudvich 
wants to use its power to make weapons. My father told me 
never to give the stones to him. So they abducted him.

Draclau: Don't worry, Mustadio. The church will see to his 
safety. While our men fight, we'll get the stone back.

Mustadio: Y, yes, sir.

Ramza: I'll go to Goug with you.

Mustadio: Thank you, Ramza.

Agrias: We made it this far thanks to you, Ramza.

Ovelia: I wish I could've been more help. Please be careful.

Ramza: That's very thoughtful. Don't worry. We'll be fine.


I------------------------------------------------------------I
|-- =-=-= =-= =-=-= =-= =-=- NEWS -=-= =-= =-=-= =-= =-=-= --|
|                                                            |
|                     Zodiac Brave Story                     |
|                     ==================                     |
| Long before Ivalice was united, the land was divided into  |
| 7 kingdoms: Zeltennia, Fovoham, Lionel, Limberry, Lesalie, | 
| Gallione, and Murond. Each tried to expand their territory | 
| and the struggles continued for hundreds of years, until   |
| an ambitious new King, was born in Murond. He gathered a   | 
| great army from all over Ivalice and fought, but victory   |
| did not come easily. Then the King found a secret way to   | 
| summon a Magic God from the netherworld. But when he tried | 
| to use its powers, the Magic God killed the King and tried | 
| to destroy the world... 12 brave souls defeated the Devils | 
| summoned by the Magic God and sent him back to the         | 
| netherworld. At this time, the 12 warriors were crested    |
| with 12 zodiac symbols, and people began to call them the  | 
| "Zodiac Braves".                                           |
|                                                            |
|                        Zodiac Stone                        |
|                        ============                        |
| Crystals said to be made in a mythic area. With a zodiac   | 
| symbol carved on their surface, the crystal was known as   |
| the "Zodiac Stone of the 12 zodiac symbols". The stones    |
| are said to have holy powers used by the Zodiac Braves to  | 
| work miracles. The last time they were seen was during St. | 
| Ajora's time, no one has seen them since...                |
|                                                            |
|                  Bart Company's dark rumor                 |                
|                  =========================                 |
| Bart Trading Company, based in Warjilis, is increasing in  | 
| popularity because it donates heavily to projects          |
| improving the infrastructure and orphanages. But they are  | 
| not only known for their charity. Some say they are a      | 
| criminal outfit involved in opium smuggling, slavery and   | 
| even murder. Who knows the real truth about this company?  |
|                                                            |
I------------------------------------------------------------I


<< Flashback >>
---------------

Besrodio: Listen, Mustadio. Take this and run!

[Besrodio gives a yellow shiny stone to Mustadio.]

Mustadio: Run? Where?

[Outside the room....]

Rudvich Mercenary: I know you're in there! Open the door!!

[Mustadio holds his father's hand.]

Mustadio: Father! Let's get out of here!

Besrodio: My legs are useless! Just go on without me!!

Mustadio: I can't leave you alone!

Besrodio: The Holy stone has enough power to destroy a 
country! Can't let Rudvich get it! Hide it in a safe place! 
And ask Cardinal Draclau to help you! I know he will!

[Rudvich and his mercenary breaks inside the room.]

Rudvich: You've wasted enough time. Now, give me the stone!

Besrodio: Go now! Mustadio!!

[The mercenaries rushes in to catch Mustadio.]

Besrodio: Hurry!!

[Mustadio escapes.]

Rudvich: After him!! Get him!

<< End of Flashback >>
----------------------

[After the tough fight with the monsters of Zigolis Swamp. The 
two finally comes to Goug Machine City.]


                    -- Goug Machine City --
                    =======================

Mustadio: I don't see anyone from Bart Company. It doesn't 
even look like there was a fight.... Something's strange.... 
I'll check it out. See you later.

Ramza: Where?

[Mustadio points at the slums.]

Mustadio: The slums over there... they shouldn't attract 
attention.

Ramza: All right. Be careful.

Mustadio: Right. Leave it to me.

[Mustadio leaves to check things out. Night falls and Ramza 
arrives at the slums to meet Mustadio.]


- Slums -
---------

Ramza: He's late.... Too late.

[Rain starts to pour down.]

Ramza: Think Mustadio was caught?

Man's voice: Are you his friend?

Ramza: Who are you!?

[Two female archer and a man comes out to greet Ramza.]

Ill-looking man: Bring him!

[A thief brings out the captured Mustadio.]

Mustadio: S...Sorry, Ramza.

Ramza: Are you OK, Mustadio!!? 

[Ramza tries to free Mustadio.]

Man: That's far enough. Don't move any closer! 

Ramza: So, you're Rudvich!! Let Mustadio go!!

Rudvich: Give me the "Holy Stone". Then you can have him back. 
[looks at Mustadio] C'mon! Where'd you hide it? Talk!

Mustadio: ...

Rudvich Won't talk, huh? Even after seeing this? 

[The man gives the signal and another thief comes out holding 
Mustadio's father.]

Mustadio: Father! Are you OK!?

Besrodio: I'm all right... Don't give him the 'Holy Stone'.

Rudvich: Put him in there!

[The thief shoves Besrodio into a room.]

Rudvich: Ready to confess now?

[Mustadio looks down.]

Mustadio: Inside the chimney... at Ramza's feet...

Rudvich: Well then, you pick it up! If you want to save his 
life!

[Ramza gets the hidden holy stone from inside the chimney.]

Ramza: This...? Let them go!

Rudvich: First give me the stone!

Ramza: Let them go, first!!

Rudvich: Throw the stone! Then, we'll let them go!

[Ramza throws the stone at Rudvich and frees Mustadio. The 
stone shines in Rudvich's hand.]

Rudvich: The Zodiac Stone! Finally we've got it! The 
Cardinal'll be very pleased! Good job. I'm done now. You take 
care of the rest. Get rid of them!

[Rudvich disappears into the darkness with the stone.]

Ramza: Draclau was in on it, too?

[Ramza swings his sword and cuts the throat of the nearest 
thief. Mustadio runs towards the other thief and nails him 
with a punch. The other escapes into the darkness.]

Mustadio: Will my father be all right?


- Mustadio's house -
--------------------

Besrodio: Don't worry about me.... They got the stone. 
Rudvich'll try to revive the machines beneath Goug with its 
power. He may even try to use the divine power with Bart 
Company. Not much we can do now...

Mustadio: Heh, heh... Good for them.

Besrodio: What do you mean?

[Mustadio brings out a shiny crystal. The holy stone shines.]

Mustadio: I made a fake one in case something like this 
happened. 

Ramza: You mean, they got a fake?

Mustadio: That's right. They must be going crazy now.

Ramza: Princess Ovelia and Agrias are in danger....!

Mustadio: What do you mean?

Ramza: The Cardinal joined Bart to get the stone. He may take 
the Princess hostage.

Mustadio: Ridiculous! Making an enemy of the royal family! 

Ramza: Why do you think the Cardinal wanted the stone? People 
are sick of long wars and political in fighting. Draclau wants 
to use the 'Zodiac Brave Story'. Creating 'Zodiac Braves' by 
collecting holy stones, he can control the world.

Besrodio: He is right. We can't give the stone to the 
Cardinal.

Ramza: Let's save the Princess and Agrias!

Mustadio: Right. But the way to Lionel is probably sealed. 
We'll use a ship to sneak in the back of the castle.

[The party sails to Warjilis Trade City, taking the stone with 
them.]


                   -- Warjilis Trade City --
                   =========================

Ramza: There aren't any Lionel troops in Warjilis....

[Ramza walks off the ship and faces an old friend.]

Ramza: Delita! Why are you here!?

Delita: Don't take our information network too lightly.

Ramza: 'Our'?

Delita: Go back to Igros, for your own sake. It's healthier to 
keep your nose out of certain things like Princesses and 
stones.

Ramza: Delita, what do you mean?

Delita: rescuing the Princess only solves one problem. But I 
can save her from all of them. 

Ramza: What do you mean? I don't understand.

Delita: The best ways don't always lead to the best results. 
You can't save her no matter what. Remember that.

[Delita walks away.]

Ramza: Wait, Delita. What are you trying to do?

Delita: Larg, Goltana, your brothers, everyone... Haven't 
noticed they're all swept up in the same flow. I'm just going 
against it. That's all...... I'll see you again, if we live 
that long.

[Delita leaves.]

Ramza: Delita...

[Meanwhile at Lionel Castle...]


                      -- Lionel Castle --
                      ===================

Gafgarion: You're using the princess as bait to get the stone 
back? That's not some thing a holyman would do.

Rudvich: Bastard! Things would've been fine if you hadn't let 
them escape!

Gafgarion: There were some mistakes, but it wasn't my fault!

Draclau: Enough, Rudvich. I'll return Ovelia to Dycedarg as 
promised. It was our intention, too. But don't you need to get 
rid of those who know about the kidnapping? The thief who 
stole the stone is with them. You can catch them all by using 
the Princess as bait. 2 birds with one stone.

Gafgarion: Exactly. But what if...?

Draclau: You are being weak.

Gafgarion: 'Careful' is more like it. You've got to be careful 
to survive on a battlefield.

Draclau: All right. I'll make sure you're protected. Also, 
we'll prepare bait just incase. 

Gafgarion: Good. The woman will make perfect bait. I'll get 
rid of them. I'm more reliable then him!

Rudvich: How dare you!

Draclau: Fine. I'll leave it to you.

Rudvich: Are you serious?

Draclau: Don't let me down, Gafgarion.

Gafgarion: No problem. I'll even get the stone back! 

[Gafgarion leaves the room.]

Rudvich: Why him...?

Draclau: You failed enough. Now you must take 
responsibility...

Rudvich: W, What...?

[Draclau kills Rudvich.]


                     -- Bariaus Valley --
                     ====================
  
[Agrias is seen running.]

Man's voice: Where are you? Don't try to escape!!

[The man finds Agrias.]

Lionel Knight: So here you are...

[The knight calls out his other troopers.]

Knight: Give yourself up!

[Ramza and the party comes for the rescue.]

Knight: What!?

Ramza: I'm protecting Agrias! Geronimo!

Agrias: Ramza! Why are you here!?

Ramza: I was going to attack the castle flank to save you. 
But, why are you here?

Agrias: The Cardinal secretly plotted with Larg from the 
start! We tried to escape but only the Princess got caught!! I 
couldn't save her. They're about to execute her. We must 
hurry!!

Ramza: First, we have to get rid of them somehow...

[Agrias pulls her sword out of her sheath just in time to 
escape the blow of an enemy knight wielding a broadsword. 
Ramza pulls out his sword and strikes down a nearby archer. 
Agrias waits for the enemy knight to attack. The knight 
finally moves and so does Agrias. With lightning speed Agrias 
gets him first. One of Ramza's wizards hits a knight with 
Bolt2. A pathetic scream escapes from the knight's mouth. An 
enemy archer's arrow sways through Ramza's arm, lancing the 
skin deeply. Ramza in pain, rushes at the archer. The archer 
trembles in fear and fumbles for an arrow. Ramza comes near 
the arches. With one blow, the bow cloven in two falls to the 
ground. Ramza lifts his sword and slices the enemy's throat.]

Ramza: Are you all right, Agrias?

Agrias: Yes, I'm alright, but we must hurry! She's going to be 
executed at the Gologrand Execution Site. Let's hurry!

Ramza: Yes, let's go!


                 -- Gologrand Execution Site --
                 ==============================

Executioner: Any last words? No? I see.

Knight of Lionel troop: Huh? The Enemy!!

[Ramza and his troops comes to their destination.]

Ramza: That's far enough! Return the Princess, now!

Executioner: Heh, heh, heh.... You fell into a trap!

Ramza: !?

[The executioner takes off his disguise.]

Gafgarion: You're still too naive, kid.

Ramza: Where is the Princess!?

Gafgarion: At Lionel Castle. Where's the stone?

Ramza: Stone?

Gafgarion: Stop playing dumb. The stone you stole from the 
Cardinal. You're with the one who stole it. Just hand it over!

Ramza: If you want it, you'll have to take it!

Gafgarion: Seems you've matured a bit. Then I will!

[The flow of battle was not on Ramza's side. Ramza and his 
troops were outnumbered. To prevent being surrounded, Ramza 
and his men split up. Gafgarion's Night Sword starts to cause 
great problem for Ramza's troop.]

Gafgarion: It's not too late! Let's go back to Igros! Your 
brother, Dycedarg said he'd forgive you! Come on, wake up!!

Ramza: No, I won't be involved in any more wrong doing! 

Gafgarion: 'Wrong doing'? What do you mean by that? You are a 
Beoulve! You have a mission to accomplish. 'Wrong doing', 
indeed! It's your mission, don't be such a fool!

Ramza: My brothers are making war for personal reasons! What 
else can you call it other than 'evil'?

Gafgarion: You must make 'sacrifices' to accomplish anything! 
Without 'sacrifice' there's no progress, nor history! Look at 
Ivalice! Corrupt! Someone must change it!! Your brothers are 
trying to do that! Even if it means 'wrong doing'!

Ramza: But that doesn't mean I should leave her stranded! 

Gafgarion: Forget about Ft. Zeakden! It couldn't be helped! 
You're a Beoulve. You have a given duty! It is your fate!

Ramza: It's fate that let Teta die? No, that's wrong! We 
killed her out of convenience... Yes, us! I've run from the 
truth long enough...I killed her...

Agrias: Ramza, are you really a Beoulve?

Gafgarion: Didn't you know, Agrias? His name is Ramza Beoulve. 
One of the Beoulve family.

Ramza: It's true I'm a Beoulve! But I'm not like my brothers! 
I never knew about kidnapping the princess! I swear it! 

Agrias: No doubt in my mind! I believe you!!

Gafgarion: This is ridiculous! One girls had died, so what? We 
must first think about 'justice'!

Ramza: There's no 'justice' in using and deceiving people! I 
can't ignore people dying for 'justice'! I'll save Princess 
Ovelia!

Gafgarion: Stubborn kid!

Agrias: What're you going to do with the Princess!?

Gafgarion: My contract's to take her back to Gallione. I have 
no idea what Larg will do after that.

Agrias: You're using her as a tool for battle! Same as you! 
Larg and Dycedarg are using you, too! Aren't you ashamed of 
yourself? Don't you have any pride?

Gafgarion: What's the use? I gave mine up long ago!

[However, the battle soon brought the best out of Ramza's 
troop. Everybody was working like one person. Ramza manages to 
kill two knights. Ramza and his troop finds themselves reeling 
back the enemy down. Gafgarion realizing this, quickly went in 
for a blow at Ramza. Ramza barely dodges the blow and counter 
attacked, injuring him a little. Gafgarion glanced around his 
surroundings. Ramza's best monk scored a jaw-breaking hit on 
one of his archer. The battle was clearly on Ramza's side.]

Gafgarion: Damn it! I didn't expect you to be this 
strong......! Retreat for now!!

[Gafgarion and his remaining troops retreats.]

Ramza: We must go to Lionel Castle immediately!!


- In a cell in Lionel Castle -
------------------------------

Delita: Aren't you eating? You can't go on without food.

Ovelia: ...

Delita: No one will mourn your death. In fact, it should make 
most people happy. You won't die. Just eat the food.

Ovelia: I knew you were in with the Cardinal. If you aren't 
turning me over to Larg, what's your plan?

Delita: Taking you somewhere you belong... that's all.

Ovelia: So, you're using me, too. But you can't make me do 
whatever you want.

Delita: You have no other choice if you want to live.

Ovelia: What's that mean?

Delita: It means....

[Draclau and a man walks inside the cell.]

A Knight: So, she is Ovelia...?

Cardinal Draclau: How are you, Princess? If you'd behaved, you 
wouldn't be here now.

Knight: Hmmm, she's almost too good a substitute for a 
Princess.

Draclau: Heh, heh...Mr. Vormav, she doesn't know yet.

Vormav: I see...poor girl.

Ovelia: What are you talking about?

Vormav: Listen carefully. You're not Ovelia.

Ovelia: What......?

Vormav: The real princess died long ago. You're a substitute.

Ovelia: No, that's a lie!!

Vormav: It's not a lie. You are not Ovelia. Old Senators who 
didn't care for Princess Luveria, made you... So someday you'd 
succeed the throne, ousting the Princess. They killed 2 older 
Princes making it look like illness, and adopted you as 
Princess. They all thought Omdolia was too weak to make 
another son so you took the throne. However, Orinas was born. 
Even now, no one's sure if the Prince is really his son. Larg 
may have had "seeds" planted to make his sister the King's 
mother... In any case, the old men's plan was ruined.

Ovelia: Liar! I don't believe it!

Vormav: Think what you will. Whether you're a Princess or not 
doesn't matter to us. What matters is that we have an ace up 
our sleeve called a 'Princess'...

Ovelia: What are you going to do to me? What do you want?

Vormav: Nothing. Just be a 'Princess' as you are now.

Ovelia: My ancestors were Atkaschas! No one can control me!

Vormav: Then what? If Larg catches you, he'll kill you... 
right? We just want to help you take the throne...

Ovelia: Who are you?

Vormav: We're neither allies of Larg nor supporters of 
Goltana. Just 'collaborators'.

Draclau: Vormav, let her calm down. Once she comes to her 
senses she won't refuse our help.

Vormav: Yes...... you're right.

[Draclau leaves the cell.]

Vormav: Let's go, Delita!

[Vormav and Delita also leaves the cell.]


- At the gate of Lionel Castle -
--------------------------------

[Ramza and his troop secretly arrives at the gate of Lionel 
Castle. Ramza tries to open the gate.]

Ramza: Wait there. I'll open the gate.

Familiar voice: Not so fast!

[Gafgarion comes out from the shadows.]

Gafgarion: You got in all right, but didn't notice an ambush.

[Gafgarion whistles. His men comes out from the shadows behind 
Ramza's troop.]

Ramza: Damn!!

Gafgarion: Ramza! It's me you must fight with! En garde!!

[Ramza's troop charges at the enemy. While that was happening 
the two man, looked at each other's eyes, ready to pull their 
swords. Ramza made the mistake by underestimating Gafgarion. 
Ramza made the first move and pulled out his sword. Ramza 
charges with incredible speed, Gafgarion also pulls out his 
sword. Gafgarion strikes a blow at Ramza. Ramza ducks just in 
time to feel the wind from the sword brush by his hair, 
cutting some of his hair down. He had to think and fight 
quickly. He swings a blow but Gafgarion blocks it with his 
sword, partially deflecting it. Ramza then leaps out of the 
way as two attacks from Gafgarion's sword narrowly misses him, 
Ramza saw the opening and wasting no time strikes a blow at 
Gafgarion's open body. The blow connects. The Dark Knight 
falls on his knee, a pool of blood slowly drips from Ramza's 
sword.]

Gafgarion: Ugnn...is this...end?

Ramza: Goodbye, Gafgarion......

[Ramza pulls out his sword from Gafgarion's body, the Knight 
falls down on the ground silently.]

Ramza: We must save the princess before reinforcements arrive!

[Ramza and his troop successfully infiltrates inside the 
castle and finds the Cardinal.]


- Inside Lionel Castle -
------------------------

Draclau: Gafgarion is not as good as he says... Or was it bad 
luck? Anyhow, you're good. You have Beoulve blood in your 
veins. Even if you are a bastard.

[The Cardinal slowly walks down to confront the party.]

Draclau: But, I don't need your interference anymore. Leave 
the stone here. If you resist, I'll show no mercy...

Ramza: Where is Princess Ovelia?

Draclau: Why must you save her? You deserted the Beoulves. 
What can you change by yourself? Don't waste energy. Without 
power, nothing can be achieved... You're powerless.

Ramza: Where's the Princess?

Draclau: She's not here. She left for Zeltennia. She chose our 
help over yours.

Ramza: That's a lie!!

Draclau: She has begun to think for herself. She felt unsure 
of you and chose us for obvious reasons to take the throne. 
Why don't you join us? You want to get the best of your 
brothers sails, right? We care about the world, too. How about 
it?

Ramza: I don't want to change the world! I just can't allow 
people to suffer and die because of some elitist's ideas. 
Change the world? You think anyone really can? I'm not that 
reckless!!

Draclau: Ha, ha, ha... You're the one holding the stone. You 
can change not only the world, but the truth of everything 
with its power. Since you don't seem to understand, let me 
show you.

[The Cardinal brings out a red crystal from his pocket. 
Lights, souls and demons flashes around the Cardinal. Huge 
ball of light flashes around the Cardinal, turning him to a 
demon.]

Tainted King, Queklain: Hya, ha, ha! How about that? 
Surprised? Now, let me have my fun. Let me hear your screams 
and suffering death cries!

[Hard and tough battle emerges. After several blows from the 
troop injures the tainted king.]

Queklain: I'm immortal...how can I be losing....? It's 
impossible. I can't...die...until he resurrects...

[The Cardinal vanishes leaving the red stone. The stone 
flashes and falls down on the ground. The haunting scream of 
the Cardinal is heard just as the stone falls on the ground.]


- Inside of Zeltennia Castle -
------------------------------

[Delita successfully delivers the Princess to Goltana. Upon 
hearing this Goltana arranges a meeting with him.]

Goltana: It's you... who saved Ovelia.

Delita: Delita- Black Sheep knight under Baron Grims, and 
Hyral. I was sent by order of Baron Grims to save the 
Princess. I've returned- Mission completed.

Minister Gelwan: ...Hyral? Never heard of him.

Goltana: The Baron died in battle last month with the Ryomoku. 
The Black Sheep were entirely wiped out.

Delita: That's why I returned.

Goltana: How's the Princess?

Kanbabrif: Sleeping soundly, she's exhausted from the long 
trip.

Orlandu: I heard you brought a prisoner?

Delita: Yes, sir. Bring him!

[A knight brings the prisoner inside the room.]

Delita: Why did you kidnap the Princess?

Prisoner: We framed Goltana to prevent him from 
Lesalia,...taking the regency.

Delita: Who gave you the order? Prince Larg?

Prisoner: One of Goltana's aids who wants to join Larg.

[Minister Gelwan steps forward to silent the prisoner.]

Gelwan: Ridiculous! No aids would do that! Silence this lout!

Goltana: No need. Listen.

Delita: Who is that?

Prisoner: ......

Delita: Talk! Now!

Prisoner: Will you save my life?

Delita: All right, I promise. Who is it!!?

Prisoner: Him... Minister Gelwan.

Gelwan: How dare you! It's a lie! I don't even know you!

Delita: Who seduced you? The Queen?

Gelwan: That's absurd! I don't know anything!

Delita: Treason's a serious crime, Minister?

[Delita draws his sword from his sheath. The knight and the 
prisoner steps back immediately. Orlandu quickly puts his hand 
on Excalibur's hilt, ready to draw.]

Gelwan: I said I don't know a thing!

[Delita lifts his sword to strike. Minister Gelwan quickly 
runs for the door but takes a fatal blow to his back from 
Delita's sword. Delita puts his sword back to his sheath and 
bow downs before Goltana. Orlandu takes his hand from 
Excalibur's hilt.]

Delita: Let me say this! We must go to the capital with the 
Nanten now! Or they may hold you responsible for this plot. 
First, let's remove Orinas and the Queen, then get the 
Princess on the throne!


                    Goltana went to Lesalia
                and confined Ruvelia in Bethla
                 for kidnapping the Princess,
                  and let the Princess accede
                        to the throne.

                 But Larg insisted Orinas was
                 the legitimate successor and
                 had him accede to the throne.
                  Then Larg became the regent
                        as a guardian.

                      Immediately after,
                        Larg sent the
                     Hokuten let by Orinas
                to Bethla to rescue the Queen.
                 Meanwhile, Goltana sent the
                    Nanten led by Ovelia...

                 This is the beginning of the
                  upheavel which would later
                 be called the 'Lion War'....


[3 months passed since the outbreak of the Lion War. Days 
passed, the frontlines expanded as did the intensity of the 
conflicts. Without any decisive victor, both Larg and 
Goltana's armies were being exhausted. Hunger and high taxes 
overwhelmed the people.]


                     -- Bethla Garrison --
                     =====================

Bolmna: 20,000 dead. Counting both sides, that makes 40,000... 
Well over 200,000 injured just in our troops alone.

Elmdor: Casualties aren't the only problem, foodstock is short 
as we expected. The real problem's the drought. There's no 
food and tax revenues are reduced. Storage is at less than a 
half.

Blansh: Larg's probably facing the same problem. I hear crops 
were ruined before harvest, due to rain.

Orlandu: More serious are those made destitute by the war. 
According to Olan, more than 100,000 refugees have come to 
Lesalia.

Blansh: Ha, ha...Good! Larg'll have problems getting food.

Orlandu: This is no laughing matter! The same could happen 
here. Many refugees may come here! Should we start peace 
talks!

Goltana: I understand your concerns. But, we cannot stop the 
war. We'll increase tax by 30%. Make sure no one trades grain 
at high prices. Also keep an eye on all refugees entering 
Limberry. 

Orlandu: Larg is in difficulty too. It's not too late for a 
peace settlement.

Goltana: Enough, Orlandu! A peace settlement won't occur.

Orlandu: Our nation exists because of the people! We exist 
because of them. Farmers suffered the most in the War! Raising 
taxes would hurt them even more. The soldiers are also 
suffering from lack of food. It's impossible to continue 
physically and mentally.

Goltana: Mentally? Are you becoming a coward?

Orlandu: In the last War, we served by keeping Ordolia out of 
our land!

Goltana: Are you saying there's no right in this battle? Since 
when did you start talking about 'hypocrisy'? You can't go 
easy on them. It's for the people! We can't allow a corrupt 
royal family to oppress the people any longer. We fight!

Blansh: He's right. Just a little longer before it's over! I 
never expected to hear that from the one they used to call 
'T.G. Cid'.

Orlandu: A little longer? Where'd you get that idea? How can 
you be optimistic? Are you blind?

[Blansh gets up from his chair.]

Blansh: Your words are harsh!!

Goltana: Enough! I'm disappointed in you, Orlandu. Any more 
harsh words may mean your life!

[Blansh sits down.]

Orlandu: ......

Goltana: I won't say this again. If any more of you disagree 
with my plans, go now! Understand? Orlandu!


                    ======================
                    Chapter 3: THE VALIANT
                    ======================

                      Delita told me that
                      there is a big tide
                   and he goes against it...

             If this age of war is the "big tide" 
                  like a fate we can't avoid, 
                     can I go against it?

                Now I head for Lesalia to tell 
               my brother Zalbag there's someone 
                   manipulating this war...


I------------------------------------------------------------I
|-- =-=-= =-= =-=-= =-= =-=- NEWS -=-= =-= =-=-= =-= =-=-= --|
|                                                            |
|                       Future of the War                    |
|                       =================                    |
| Three months have passed since the Battle at Gulofavia     |
| -The first all out battle on a plain bordered by Lesalia   |
| and Limberry-. The death toll for the two armies reached   | 
| nearly 400,000. This battle between those that fought side | 
| by side during the War is only creating many casualties    |
| with no end in sight. Many see the situation as a          |
| stalemate, and its length has brought pessimism among the  | 
| people.                                                    |
|                                                            |
|                   Rescue of Princess Ovelia                |
|                   =========================                |
| Princess Ovelia, abducted from Orbonne Monastery has been  |
| safely rescued. The mastermind behind her abduction was    |
| Gelwan, a close official to Goltana and Queen Ruvelia.     | 
| Trying to bring her son to the throne, it was the Queen's  | 
| plan, to persuade the Minister -But, those supporting the  | 
| Queen strongly deny these allegations-. Furthermore, the   | 
| Minister has been already been executed. The one who       |
| rescued the Princess was a young Knight named Delita, an   | 
| assistant Black Sheep Knight under Baron Grims. Recognized | 
| for his heroism, he is expected to be the next leader of   |
| the Black Sheep now that the seat is vacant since the      |
| Baron was killed fighting the "Ryomoku"!                   |
|                                                            |
|                        Draclau's death                     |
|                        ===============                     |
| 3 months have passed since the death of Draclau, due to    | 
| illness. There are rumors that the leader of Lionel Castle | 
| was really assassinated. There is even one rumor that it   |
| was a murder by an "Unidentified monster". To support      |
| these theories, there was an attack upon the castle by     | 
| thieves, the night before his death causing many death and | 
| injuries. The cause of death was said to be people were    | 
| "crushed to death."                                        |
|                                                            |
|                   Drought and flood damage                 |
|                   ========================                 |
| 10 years ago, the kingdom had a terribly bad harvest.      | 
| Zeltennia and Limbbery were devasted by drought and their  | 
| harvests were half the norm. On the other hand, Gallione   |
| and Fovoham, were devasted by floods. The harvests in the  | 
| west were about half the norm as well. People left         |
| destitute in the war and people suffering from famine      | 
| migrated to Lesalia seeking refuge.                        |
|                                                            |
I------------------------------------------------------------I

[On their way to Lesalia, the party comes across a wooden 
house. A young man climbs on top of the house.]

Roar: Where! Where did he run!?

[The young man moves.]

A roar: Up there! Up the roof!!

[A gang of thieves comes out and surrounds the house.]

Olan: Surrounded...

[The leader climbs up the roof and greets the man.]

Thief: I don't know who you are. Too bad you stumbled on us.

Olan: Next time put a sign outside saying "Thieves' hideout".

Thief: Hya, ha! Damn blabbermouth. Now, give yourself up.

[Ramza and his troop decides to help the helpless man.]

Ramza: Something weird's going on in here...

Thief: We have many visitors today. Let's get them all 
together!

[Ramza and his troop prepares to fight but then watches in 
amazement as Olan uses Galaxy Stop.]

Olan: Destiny lies in my hands! Stop movement! Galaxy Stop!

[The place flashes around in a weird light. Time seems to be 
not moving and all of a sudden the thieves freezes. Using the 
opportunity Ramza's troop cuts the throats of the thieves.]

Ramza: Are you all right?

Olan: Thank you for saving me. My name is Olan Durai. What is 
yours?

Ramza: Ramza Beoulve.

[Olan gives a strange reaction upon hearing Ramza's name.]

Olan: !!

Ramza: Is something wrong?

Olan: Oh, nothing. Never mind. Where are you going anyway?

Ramza: To Lesalia. If you're going that way we could go along.

Olan: Too bad, I'm going the other way. Thanks for the offer.

Ramza: Well, be careful.

Olan: You too.

[The two shakes hands with each other.]

Olan: I'll see you later. Stay alive, till then.

Ramza: Oh, uh, yeah...

[The two goes separate ways.]


                -- Lesalia Imperial Capital --
                ==============================

[Ramza finally comes to Lesalia and meets up with his brother, 
Zalbag.]

Zalbag: What's wrong? Why aren't you sitting? I was surprised 
to know you're in Lesalia. Alma's here, too. See her before 
you go.

Ramza: Brother...

Zalbag: What?

Ramza: Can you stop the war?

Zalbag: Don't be ridiculous!

Ramza: What's the purpose? Beoulves have fought to protect the 
people, not royalty. But now, they're fighting for self-
interest...

Zalbag: You don't know anything!

Ramza: You don't understand, brother! This battle's someone's 
plot! Someone's using Larg and Goltana!!

Zalbag: Using...? What are you talking about?

Ramza: I don't know much either...... Dycedarg tried to kidnap 
the princess to keep Goltana from the throne. But someone took 
the Princess to Goltana. If she was killed then, Goltana would 
have been killed as a traitor.

[Zalbag gets up from his chair.]

Zalbag: Dycedarg planned the kidnap? Ramza! You're saying your 
own brother came up with such a plot!?

[Ramza steps back.]

Ramza: Don't you know anything!?

Zalbag: You fool!! Don't you trust your flesh? Get out! Go 
back to Igros!!

Ramza: Don't you believe me?!

Zalbag: How am I supposed to believe an irreverent kid like 
you! I've cared about you being my half-brother but, after all 
bad blood is bad blood. Not suitable for a Beoulve!

Ramza: ...Zalbag...

[A Hokuten Knight comes in rushing into the room.]

Hokuten Knight: Your Excellency! I was told "T.G. Cid" broke 
through Doguola Pass!

Zalbag: What!? I thought they were at Bethla! We'll have an 
assembly! Tell everyone to join!! I'll be there, too!!

Knight: Yes, sir!

[Zalbag and the knight leaves the room.]


- Back gate of Lesalia Castle -
-------------------------------

[Ramza steps out to go.]

Alma: Ramza, wait!

[Alma comes to meet Ramza.]

Ramza: Alma...

Alma: You were going to leave without telling me?

Ramza: I hate good byes...

Alma: You won't be back, will you?

Ramza: Delita is alive.

Alma: What?

Ramza: Delita helped kidnap the Princess.

Alma: What does all this mean?

Ramza: I thought he joined Goltana to get back at us... But he 
seems to be involved more with someone else. Someone other the 
Delita saved the Princess from being killed for some scheme.

Alma: Is it true Dycedarg was involved in the kidnapping?
 
Ramza: Yes. I'm sure he had his reasons, but I don't know 
them.

Alma: So Teta.... Is it...?

Ramza: Yes...

[Alma cries.]

Ramza: Alma, listen carefully. I don't know who's behind 
Delita. But he's dangerous. Taking advantage of the war to 
achieve something vicious. 

Alma: Is Delita party to the plot?

Ramza: I don't know. He seemed to have his own ideas about 
things though.

Alma: You're fighting against them?

Ramza: ...

Alma: I'll go with you.

Ramza: Are you out of your mind? Of course not!!

Alma: I want to prove what you're saying is true!

Ramza: No, no.

Alma: I don't want to see another Teta!!
 
Ramza: Alma......

Man's voice: Ramza Beoulve, aren't you?

[Two knight and a man steps out of the darkness.]

Priest: I'm Zalmo Rusnada, Heresy Examiner! I order you to 
appear at a heresy hearing on suspicion of murder and heresy! 
You will follow us! Any resistance will force us to execute 
you immediately!

Ramza: Heresy Examiner??

Alma: Run! Brother!!

Zalmo: I won't let you! Get him! Kill the 'heretic'!

[More soldiers runs out from the shadows behind Zalmo. Ramza 
kills one of the monk, the monk's scream came out from his 
mouth before his soul fled. Agrias pulled out her sword and 
struck a Lightning Stab on one of the knights.]

Zalmo: Opposing us is the same as blasphemy! It's not too 
late! Repent! And your life will be saved!

Ramza: Why am I a 'heretic'? I haven't done anything.

Zalmo: Don't be coy! You killed Draclau and took the Holy 
Stone to give it to a demon!

Ramza: That's a false charge! It was an 'evil stone' with 
vicious power, not like the legend. Further, the Cardinal 
became the legendary 'Lucavi' with its evil power!!

Zalmo: You dare to hurt him too? Oh... for shame! You are a 
disgrace to the Beoulve name!

Zalmo: Brother! Run! Hurry!! Those he never return! Run! 
Hurry! 

Ramza: You should run, Alma! Or you too, will be branded a 
'heretic'! Hurry and run!!

Alma: I can't leave you alone here!

[Ramza counter attacks a knight, cutting through his armor and 
flesh. The knight falls.]

Zalmo: You 'heretics' don't fear God!! I'll fix you!

[Zalmo vanishes.]

Alma: Are you all right?

Ramza: Yeah....so we're both OK. How'd the examiner find out 
about the Holy Stone? Maybe it was someone behind Delita or 
Glabados Church? But why would the church...?

Alma: Holy stone? You mean the legendary Holy Stone? It really 
exists? Then, maybe I've seen it...

[Ramza looks at her sister in disbelieve.]

Ramza: What!? Where?

Alma: Promise to take me with you?

Ramza: don't be ridiculous. You'd have a terrible time! NO! I 
won't take you!

Alma: Ok, then I won't tell you!

Ramza: Come on, don't play games. You might get killed!

Alma: It may be too late already. Because you disobeyed him. 
By now I'm probably a heretic, a fugitive like you. Dycedarg 
may desert me to protect Beoulve....

Ramza: He's capable of that. No, it's too dangerous. Explain 
it to Zalbag and get permission from the church!

Alma: I saw it at Orbonne Monastery. Yes....a crystal with a 
carved Virgo crest.

Ramza: Virgo...... Before it passes into their hands...... 
Thanks for telling me. Now, go back to Zalbag!

Alma: How do you get in Orbonne? You're a 'heretic'. You can't 
go into a monastery of Glabados. There's no way!

Ramza: Uh.........

Alma: See? You DO need me, don't you?

Ramza: Only as far as Orbonne, all right? Then you go back.

Alma: ......alright.

Ramza: Promise me!

[Alma nods.] 


I------------------------------------------------------------I
|-- =-=-= =-= =-=-= =-= =-=- NEWS -=-= =-= =-=-= =-= =-=-= --|
|                                                            |
|               Death of Marquis Elmdor in battle            |
|               =================================            |
| Known as the "Silver Nobleman" to his allies and "Silver   |
| Ogre" to his enemies, Marquis Elmdor was hit by a stray    | 
| arrow at the battle at Fuss Plains and died. His people    | 
| believed in him and thought he was a devout believer in    |
| the Glabados Church. Many visit his grave to pay their     | 
| respects. Since he was the leader that supported the       |
| Goltana Army, the war effort will be affected.             |
|                                                            |
I------------------------------------------------------------I


[Ramza and his squad arrives at the monastery. Orbonne was 
already attacked by those after the stone. Ramza and Alma 
finds Simon, wounded in the library.]


- Underground Book Storage First Floor -
----------------------------------------

Alma: Simon!! Please answer me!!

Simon: U, ugh...Alma... Why...are you...here?

Alma: What happened?

Simon: It's dangerous....here. Hurry....run. They...came for 
the Holy Stone 'Virgo'...

Ramza: Holy Stone!? Then Alma was right...

Simon: The Stone's been a royal treasure for generations... 
When Princess Ovelia came here, they gave it to us as proof of 
her status.

Ramza: Who are 'they'? Who's trying to get the stone?

Simon: You're Alma's older brother Ramza, aren't you? Don't 
get any more involved. You'll be killed......

Man's voice: Where is the Holy Stone!!

Another voice: Wait! It must be here somewhere! Look for it!

Another voice: We can go underground from here. Let's go!!

Ramza: I'm a fugitive, branded by the church as a 'heretic'. 
Is it because of the stone? Please tell me. Who are they?

Simon: High Priest and his sect are trying to regain power. 
First, they're reducing Larg and Goltana's military power by 
causing in-fighting. If the war drags on, it not only reduce 
their power, but trust in the royal family.

Ramza: What's the real reason for collecting the Stones... and 
reviving the Zodiac Braves?

Simon: To gain the people's trust, of course.

Ramza: But the Cardinal already joined Lucavi. If it's only 
the stone's power, it'd be strong enough to replace the 
military. Funeral wants that power?

Simon: You're different from your brothers. More like 
Balbanes. Perhaps you might be able to destroy their ambition.

Ramza: You stay here. I'll go after them.

Alma: I'll go with you!

Ramza: We can't leave Simon alone. Hide in a safe place!

Alma: ....OK, I will.

[Ramza hands the Holy Stones to Alma.]

Ramza: Hold on to this stone, just in case. If I don't come 
back, make sure to throw it in Bugrosia Sea. OK!

Alma: I regret I can't help you. I wish I were born a man...

Ramza: Don't be silly. You're the only one I trust.

Alma: Brother...

Ramza: Take care of Simon!

[Ramza goes down after the attackers, leaving the two stones 
and Simon in Alma's care.]


- Underground Book Storage Second Floor -
-----------------------------------------

Izlude: You stay here! Understand!?

Shrine Knight Wizard: Yes, sir!

[Izlude goes down to find the holy stone. Ramza and his squad 
comes down to confront the enemy.]

Ramza: It's not over yet! Never give them the Stone!

[And with that, Ramza charges at the nearest enemy, with one 
sword in his hand. He watches as the sword cuts through the 
enemy. Ramza then feels the wind from the lancer's spear near 
his head. He quickly reaches near the lancer and slashes 
wildly with his sword. Ramza's troop kills all of the other 
enemies.]

Izlude: Wow! Is this 'Virgo'? How beautiful!!

Ramza: Underground! Let's go!

[Ramza and his troop pursues Izlude and finds him.]


- Underground Book Storage Third Floor -
----------------------------------------

Izlude: I didn't expect you to find us here! But, just in 
time. Heretic Ramza, hand us the stone!

Ramza: No, why don't you give me yours? Do as I say and I'll 
let you live!

Izlude: You think you can beat us?! Then I'll take it by 
force!

[Ramza sends a fierce blow from his sword. The enemy knight 
realizes he wouldn't make it in time, gets a fatal blow from 
Ramza's sword. The knight silently falls to the ground.]

Izlude: Why do you go against us Ramza?  Though you're a 
Beoulve, you don't obey your brothers. Why?

Ramza: It's because I'm a Beoulve that I don't obey them! The 
name shouldn't be used for self-gain, but rather for divine 
'justice'! During the War, my father fought and died to save 
the people from invasion... Beoulves must not fight for a 
defunct royal family, but only for Noble rights!

Izlude: Then, let's fight together! Our goals are the same! 
Listen well, Ramza! The Glabados want a world where all people 
are equal! St. Ajora's ideal world, is 'God's world'! You know 
people don't trust the royal family or nobility! We must do 
something before Ivalice is ruined!!

Ramza: You started this war! Was that the will of God?

Izlude: Certain sacrifices must be made for the revolution! 
Decadent royalty and nobles must pay! For the people! Now, 
cooperate with us. As Delita did!

Ramza: It sounds good when you say 'for the people', but what 
you really want is... a stronger army than the Knights, and 
the evil power to control the people.

Izlude: 'Evil power'? No, the stone is 'holy'! We want to 
guide people by God's miracle! Never "evil power"!

Ramza: You know the Cardinal joined Lucavi, right? If that's 
not 'evil power', I don't know whatis!

Izlude: What do you mean? You killed the Cardinal and took the 
stone from him! But he died because he was secretly collecting 
the Holy Stone for us.

[Ramza leaps out of the way as two blows from Izlude's sword 
sails narrowly beside him. Dashing at his foe, Ramza hurls his 
sword with all his strength and injures Izlude's left arm.]

Izlude: Damn! I refuse to acknowledge his power! I can't 
die... I must bring the stone back! Ramza, The next time I see 
you, will be your last! Remember!

Ramza: Wait! Izlude!!

[Izlude runs up to the first floor. Ramza follows.]


- Underground Book Storage First Floor -
----------------------------------------

Alma: No! Let go!

Wiegraf: Izlude, leave this to me! You gotta get out of here 
with that firl!

Izlude: You, come on this way!

Alma: Help me! Brother Ramza!

[Izlude takes off with Alma.] 

Wiegraf: Here's Ramza! It would be a fatal mistake to 
underestimate them! Don't let your guard down!!

[Ramza and his troop comes up the first floor.]

Wiegraf: ...Miluda, finally I can avenge your death!

Ramza: Wiegraf!! You're still alive!!

Wiegraf: Been a long time, Ramza. Glad to see you again!!

Ramza: You've become a dog for the church and have forsaken 
your ideals!

Wiegraf: You don't understand how hard it is to fulfill your 
ideal. Even if your ideal is great, it's just a dream if you 
can't fulfill it! So how can you fulfill it? You need power! 
That's the politics of the world! I can see it clearly now! 
You can't fulfill your dreams without power! You say I'm a dog 
of the church! Go ahead!! I don't care! You can despise me, 
but I'll be laughing at the end. You'll all submit to me!

Ramza: I pity you, Wiegraf. Even if you couldn't fulfill your 
dream, your people wouldn't have forgotten you. Your ideals 
and actions inspired your people and stirred up the old Noble 
customs! Your actions have meaning only if they hold true to 
your ideals... Miluda and your old comrades would be 
disappointed with your current choice of actions. If you need 
someone else to fulfill your dreams it loses its value, 
Wouldn't you agree?

Wiegraf: You say you are different? You say you depend on no 
one? You'll never know the feeling of the 'Meager'! You may 
think you know it, but you've never lived it! You'd never 
know! 'Reality' is far harsher than you can possibly imagine. 
Why do you blame me? You have no right to blame me!

[Wiegraf releases Statis Sword on Ramza. Ramza feels a sharp 
pain, crying out in pain and rage, Ramza rushes at Wiegraf 
madly. With one sweep, Wiegraf's sword falls out of from his 
grasp. Ramza lifts his sword and strikes home beneath the 
neck. Wiegraf screams horribly and falls on his knee.]

Wiegraf: Ouh...... No, I won't lose...! I'm...a member...of 
Zodiac Braves... with 'Aries'... I... can't... lose... like 
this!

[Wiegraf vanishes.]

Ramza: Where are you! Wiegraf!

[Ramza's troop still battles the Temple Knights. While that 
was happening, Ramza runs outside the monastery to find Alma. 
Near death, Wiegraf crawls out of the monastery leaving trails 
of blood behind.]

Izlude: Are you OK? Wiegraf!!

Wiegraf: Don't worry...about me... Just...go!

[Ramza comes out.]

Ramza: Alma!!

Wiegraf: Go....I....

Izlude: Sorry, Wiegraf!!

[Izlude takes off with Alma.]

Ramza: Wait! Izlude!!

[Wiegraf coughs.]

Wiegraf: Goho! Damn....I can't die here. I can't face my dead 
allies without avenging Miluda... No.... I don't want to 
die...

[A purple stone falls down to the ground from Wiegraf's 
pocket. The stone slowly arises into the air.]


                  Holder of the Holy Stone...
                        Promise me....


Ramza: What....? The stone....spoke...?


                  Holder of the Holy Stone...
                        Promise me....
                  Your spirit will unite with
                   My flesh to live forever.


Wiegraf: Is this the stone's secret?


                  Your despair and resentment
                         called me...
                        now promise...


Ramza: No! Wiegraf!! Don't open that!!

Wiegraf: Help......me.....

[The stone flashes, calling upon souls and demons. The stone 
hovers on top of Wiegraf, and all sorts of light flashes 
around the stone. Wiegraf melds with the Lucavi Magician 
Velius. The stone blasts and makes mist around Wiegraf. The 
mist finally vanishes, revealing Velius (Wiegraf). Ramza 
quickly puts his hand on his sword's hilt.]

Velius: This is the stone's power!

Ramza: Wiegraf.........!

Velius: Ramza, its power is magnificent! No, not just the 
power. Centuries of knowledge ingrained into my brain.

[With lightning speed, Ramza pulls out his sword from his 
sheath.]

Velius: Hya, ha...easy...save some for later...! Hya, 
ha...superb...Superb power......!

[Velius vanishes. The wounded Simon comes out. Ramza helps the 
old man.]

Ramza: Simon! Can you hear me...?

Simon: H, here...

[Simon hands a book to Ramza.]

Ramza: What is this book?

Simon: Germonik, a disciple of St. Ajora wrote it... It had 
been missing...till I found it in the underground library.... 
It explains in detail about the Zodiac Brave Story...

Ramza: Please don't try to talk!

Simon: That's all right...... I'm a sinner... I knew of the 
church's wrong doing... but said nothing... You can bring them 
to justice with this book! You can bring Alma back with this 
book...

Ramza: Simon!!

Simon: Whew, now I can finally rest. Take care of the rest... 
Ramza.... You're just like Balbanes... when he was young.

[Simon dies peacefully.]

Ramza: Simon!!


                    -- Dorter Trade City --
                    =======================

[After the death of Simon, Ramza heads to Dorter. It was 
raining hard, while walking up the street Ramza meets a young 
man.]

Exotic Wizard: Heretic Ramza?

Ramza: Where is Alma?

Wizard: If you want her back, come to Riovanes Castle. But you 
must bring the 'Germonik Scriptures' given to you at the 
monastery.

Ramza: What does it mean to you?

Wizard: Haven't you read it?

Ramza: 1. Yes
       2. No
       ------


Ramza: < 1. Yes >
-----------------

Ramza: Return Alma, if you don't want the church's lies 
exposed!

Wizard: You're in no position to demand. You have no choice. 
You've been warned.

- Continues with the game -


Ramza: < 2. No > 
----------------

Ramza: No, not yet. Is it an important book?

Wizard: A blissful ignorant. Your life's in danger, and yet 
you don't even realize the importance of the book? Well...no 
matter...you've been warned.
 
- Continues with the game -

[The wizard disappears into the dark shadows.]


- Ruins of Zeltennia Castle's Church -
--------------------------------------

[Ovelia, who became Queen by Goltana's will was shattered upon 
discovering she was living a lie.]

Delita: So here you are... Everyone was looking for you.

[Delita enters the ruins.]

Delita: Something wrong? Oh, I  shouldn't talk to a Princess 
in such a way.

Ovelia: Stop it!!

Delita: By your leave, your most gracious majesty.

Ovelia:  ...Please stop.

Delita: Sorry....I apologize.

Ovelia: What are you going to do with me? I'm not Ovelia, you 
know. I'm worth nothing to you. Not even worth living alive.

Delita: Yes. You're not Ovelia. We don't know your real name 
or even if you're a noble or a commoner.

Ovelia: What did my life mean all these years...? Raised as a 
substitute... Ha, ha...amusing isn't it? A Princess must live 
her life quietly in a monastery away from the capital. I'd 
often wondered why only I had to live like that. But if my 
suffering would to keep Ivalice in peace, then I thought I 
could endure it. What was all the grief and isolation I 
suffered for?

Delita: You and I are the same... Miserable people forced to 
live false lives. Always being used by someone... Try hard and 
you'll be rewarded they say. Lies... Only those close to the 
top are rewarded without trying, It's the way of the world. 
Most people have to act the roles given to them... Then again, 
most of them haven't even noticed they're even acting. No way 
I'd do that. I won't be used. I'll be the one using! Those who 
used me must pay for what they've done!

Ovelia: What will you do?

Delita: Trust me, Ovelia. I'll make a country worthy of you! 
I'll make your life shine! Let me guide you!

[Delita comforts Ovelia.]

Delita: ...Don't cry like that.

Ovelia: Should I trust you?

Delita: I won't betray you. I swear by my dead sister, 
Teta...... So, please don't cry...

[Finding comfort in Delita's words, Ovelia hugs him. Having 
seen the death of Simon, abduction of Alma, the church's lies, 
Germonik Scriptures, the war, Ramza heads to Riovanes Castle 
to find answers and to end things. On their way, at Grog Hill, 
Ramza and his troop comes across some people.]

                        -- Grog Hill --
                        ===============

Nanten Deserter: Damn. What rotten luck, a pursuit unit!

Ramza: Are you a Nanten patrol?

Deserter: We're tired of fighting! We want to go home! We'd 
rather be poor and covered with mud than this! We're sick of 
killing! We want to return to our families!

Ramza: Wait! We're not after you! We have no desire to fight! 
Don't misunderstand!

Deserter: Don't lie! You expect us to believe you? Trying to 
get us off guard then kill us! Well none of your tricks will 
work!

Deserter (Chemist): H, hey! He was on the wanted list!

Deserter: Huh? ....So what?!

Deserter (Chemist): It's him! The 'heretic! You know! If we 
bring him to them, they may let us off!!

Deserter: You mean... going back to the Knights?

Deserter (Chemist): Getting a 'heretic's big. Like getting 
enemy brass! If we get him, they might give us a discharge, 
too.

Deserter: That's right... I know a guy discharged in an 
exchange.

Deserter (Chemist): We can go home big! Otherwise, we'll have 
to live in hiding as deserters!

Deserter: Right! Let's catch him! We can even kill him! He's a 
'heretic', they'll execute him sooner or later. We can go home 
by killing him! This is our last battle!!

[Ramza's troop easily kills the deserters, without Ramza's 
help.]

Ramza: I understand your lives are important...but, is that 
it?

[After defeating the deserters, Ramza wonders about his 
father.]

Ramza: I wonder what...father would've done?

[The pursuit unit along with Olan as the leader, appears at 
rainy Grog Hill.]

Olan: We meet again.

Ramza: A Black Lion's crest.... You're a Nanten?

Olan: So, you killed the deserters for us. I never thought a 
Beoulve would help us.

Ramza: Not because I wanted to.

Olan: I know. You didn't want to fight, right? Same here. I 
don't go after deserters because I want to. You know what I 
mean. 
 
Ramza: You knew me...

Olan: Yeah, I saw your name and face on the wanted list... As 
a dangerous 'heretic', what did you do?

Ramza: Are you going to try and catch me?

Olan: Why would I do that? Our job's to catch deserters. No 
need for us to be involved. But your brothers are after you. 
Run before they come.

[Ramza walks and stops.]

Ramza: Why do you continue to fight?

Olan: As long as your brothers point swords at us, it'll 
continue...

Ramza: So if Larg quits, Goltana would, too?

Olan: But that won't ever happen.

Ramza: If you see Orlandu of Nanten, let me know. Some are 
urging Larg and Goltana for 'gain'. We're in the palm of their 
hands...They're the real ones to beat.

Olan: Why Orlandu?

Ramza: My father used to say he was his only friend...

Olan: Orlandu's my father-in-law. I'll tell him that...

Ramza: Do you believe me?

Olan: I don't know why they're trying to collect holy stones. 
If it's for the people, I won't interrupt. But, if it's for 
self gain, Orlandu won't allow it. He'll promise to kill in 
the name of 'T.G. Cid'.

Ramza: Do you know about the High Priest's plot?

Olan: Yes, but there is no proof. We're investigating it, but 
you may know better.

Ramza: If we prove it, would you stop fighting?

Olan: Do you have proof?

Ramza: Here's the 'Germonik...' ...no...nothing...

Olan: No one knows whether the war will end or not. But I'm 
sure... Orlandu would quit...

Nanten Knight: Olan, shall we go?

Olan: All right. I'm coming! I must go, Ramza. Take care.

[Olan goes down to unite with his unit.]

Olan: Ramza, you're not alone! You have friends! Allies who'd 
risk their lives! I'm one of them!

[Olan and his squad leaves.]

Ramza: ...Thank you, Olan.

[Ramza drew strength from Olan's words and proceeds to 
Riovanes Castle. On their way, Ramza and his troop decides to 
rest at Yardow Fort City.]


                     -- Yardow Fort City --
                     ======================

Exotic Wizard: You know what you're saying?

Rafa: You're the one who doesn't. We're not tools. Tools for 
murder! If we stay here, we'll be used as tools till we die! 
Come on, Malak! Let's escape together!

Malak: Who helped us when we lost our parents in the war? If 
Grand Duke hadn't saved us, we'd have starved... he cared 
about us... Now you're returning the favor with vengeance?

[Rafa shakes her head.]

Rafa: You've been deceived! Barinten took advantage of war and 
burned the village! Why? To get the family skills only our 
family knows. He burned a village to get my Heaven skill and 
your Hell skill! He killed our parents!! Don't you see?!!

[Malak slaps Rafa on the cheek.]

Malak: That's ridiculous!!

Rafa: You know what he did! What he did to me! I KNOW you 
know!

Malak: Don't you say anymore! Otherwise, I...

[A ninja comes down to meet Malak.]

Riovanes Ninja: So here you are, Malak. He'll be here soon.

[More enemy soldiers comes.]

Malak: I know. It's all set....

Rafa: Malak....

[Ramza and his troop comes to Yardow Fort City.]

Ninja: Here he comes! Heretic Ramza!

[Rafa quickly sprints to Ramza's troop.]

Malak: Rafa!!

Rafa: Help!!

Ramza: You! You're that man! You're supposed to be waiting at 
Riovanes Castle!

Malak: That was what Grand Duke said! I'll prove we can beat 
you without the Shrine Knights!

[Ramza and his troop was already on the enemy. The Riovanes 
ninja fumbles for his swords. With one sweep from Ramza's 
sword, the ninja flies down to the ground. The other enemies,  
underestimating Ramza and his troop trembles violently. One of 
Ramza's archer sends off an arrow. The stray arrow hits one of 
the enemy summoner. Malak draws a small knife, Ramza knocks 
down the knife with his sword.]

Malak: Damn, I hate retreating like this!

Ramza: Are you all right?

Rafa: Y....yes...thank you...I....I....

Ramza: If they return, we're in trouble. Let's hide!

[Rafa, the girl rescued at Yardow, talks with Ramza in a 
basement.]


- Basement -
------------

Rafa: Barinten wants only one thing. To be the king. They call 
him 'Weapon King' for making strong weapons and training many 
wizards.

Ramza: There is one who incites the Grand Duke that is of the 
royal family. Killing Larg and Goltana set the stage for him 
to become a regent...

Rafa: Why do you keep fighting being branded a 'heretic'? I 
think I know why. But nobody'll thank you for beating him.

Ramza: I'm not fighting for thanks. I'm fighting for honor and 
pride as a Beoulve.

Rafa: That's a lie....You aren't that noble. You can't ignore 
injustice or evil in front of you.

Ramza: You flatter me. I'm not that good. But what're you 
going to do? I must go to Riovanes to save Alma. But you 
barely escaped from there, right?

Rafa: I must get my brother out...

Ramza: Why are you two fighting?

Rafa: We're Fifty Year War orphans. I'll never forget those 
days looking through garbage and dead bodies for food... 
That's when Barinten saved us. I believed in God then.

Ramza: Barinten built orphanages for the war orphans. But, he 
provided training to 'gifted' children to be professional 
assassins... You must be those children.

Rafa: We, Galthanas, have 'secret skills' of the family.... My 
Heaven skill and my brother's Hell skill. These two skills 
differ from magic... Barinten wanted them. But the family 
elder refused him. So he burned the village. He decided if he 
couldn't have them, he'd erase them from this world. He 
probably was excited when he found us among the orphans.

Ramza: You tried to escape when you found out the truth.

Rafa: We yearned for him to be like our real father... But 
even then...

Ramza: ......

Voice of Malak: So this is where you were hiding?

Rafa: Malak!

[A frog jumps out of the darkness behind the two.]

Voice of Malak: Listen, Ramza! Hurry to Riovanes Castle! Or 
your sister will be dead!

Ramza: If you touch Alma, I'll show no mercy!

Voice of Malak: Rafa, you're coming, too! Resist and Ramza's 
sister'll die because of you!

Rafa: It's not fair! They have nothing to do with us!

Voice of Malak: This is not a warning... it's an order!!

[The frog explodes.]

Rafa: Let's go, Ramza!

Ramza: Sorry, Rafa! You had to do this because of us...

Rafa: It's not your fault. Don't worry.

[Hearing Malak's orders, Ramza and his troops heads to 
Riovanes Castle. Along the way, the party gets attacked by 
undead soldiers.]


                       -- Yuguo Woods --
                       =================

Rafa: Those who died in the War haven't been able to rest. 
Return to the future life once again with your affection left 
in this life!!

[Ramza and his troops kills the undead soldiers.]

Ramza: The spiritual forest.... I never want to come back.


- Inside of Riovanes Castle -
-----------------------------

[Vormav and Wiegraf comes inside in one of the rooms of the 
Castle to meet Barinten.]

Barinten: Welcome. How do you like our castle? It looks a 
little spartan compared to Lesalia Castle but I like it... 
This castle's built for war. It's far more beautiful than one 
built for government. Ivalice has always been ruled by men 
with 'power'. This war proved the royal family lost the 
'power'.

Vormav: Get to the point.

Barinten: You're being impatient.

[Barinten gets up from his seat and walks down.]

Barinten: To be quite frank... Can we work together?

Vormav: What do you mean?

Barinten: As I said, men with 'power' rule Ivalice. So, who 
has the "power"? Prince Larg of Hokuten? Or, Prince Goltana of 
Nanten? Neither one of them. It's you, Shrine Knights, who 
hold the stones......

Vormav: !!

Barinten: Holy Stones have great magical power. According to 
ancient legend, a natural disaster in Murond was caused by its 
power......

[Vormav starts to laugh.]

Vormav: Ha, ha, ha...... Well, excuse me. I didn't expect a 
Grand Duke like yourself believed in such fairy tales.

Barinten: So you're saying you don't believe it? That's 
strange...They say Draclau of Lionel died from problems with 
the stone.

Vormav: I heard he died of illness.

Barinten: Then why are you after the youngest Beoulve? Why 
chase him as a 'heretic'?

Vormav: We don't question decisions by Heresy Examiners.

Barinten: Oh, my...You're saying you know nothing about it? 
But you may change your mind after seeing this... Call Malak!!

[Malak brings in the captured Izlude.]

Izlude: F, father.....I'm sorry.

Vormav: ...I see.

Barinten: We have 'Scorpio' and 'Taurus'.

Vormav: Moron!!

[Vormav slaps Izlude. A Riovanes Knight walks in.]

Riovanes Knight: Excuse me, Sir! We verified the intruder's 
identity!

Barinten: Malak, I'll let you take care of him.

[Malak and the knight walks out the room.]

Vormav: What do you want?

[Barinten sits down.]

Barinten: As I said before, we want to help you, too.

Vormav: What if I refuse?

Barinten: The Church's injustice will be exposed. That's all.

Vormav: You can't prove it just with the Holy Stones.

Barinten: Exactly. But, how about with the 'Germonik 
Scriptures'? Larg, Goltana, and the senate ought to be 
interested...

Vormav: Where is it?

Barinten: I can't tell you.

Vormav: Wiegraf, go after the wizard. I'll take care of here.

[Barinten stands up from his seat. Wiegraf walks out the 
door.]

Barinten: Don't do anything funny! The odds are against you!

Vormav: Odds? What do you think you weak humans can do?

Izlude: Father....?

[A loud thunderclap booms in the distance.]

Vormav: Don't underestimate us. Killing you is easy...

Barinten: Are you opposing me!?

[Barinten quickly steps back. Two Riovanes knight enters the 
room while the two knight beside Barinten steps up. The four 
knights surrounds Vormav and slowly puts their hand on their 
sword's hilt. Vormav looks down. Another loud thunderclap 
booms in the distance. Drops of sweats runs down from the 
knights foreheads.]

Vormav: Want to fight...? Fine. I'll show you the power of the 
Holy Stone!

[Vormav brings out a yellow stone. The stone starts to glow. 
The screen fades. The cries of terror echoes in the hall.]


- At the gate of Riovanes Castle -
----------------------------------

Rafa: Malak, please stop! Let's go together!

Malak: You know what happens to traitors! You'll be chased by 
your ex-allies and killed. Even if you escape, you'll live 
your life frightened. I'd never want to live like that! But 
Grand Duke promised to free us after this job!

Rafa: Do you believe him? You know he's lying! If we don't 
escape now, we'll be his slaves for life!

Malak: I trust him! We'll be free if we kill him and take the 
'Germonik Scriptures'!

Ramza: Where is Alma?

Malak: I can see you're worried about her. Just hand me the 
'Germonik Scriptures' and I'll save you!

Rafa: Ramza, don't believe him! Barinten'll kill both of you 
once he gets what he wants! Whatever you do don't give the 
scriptures to him! Your sister'll be safe only as long as you 
have the book!


- If Malak gets injured during the battle -

Malak: Ugh....tough... My power is not good enough?!

[Malak escapes.]

Rafa: Malak! Are you running away?

[Rafa goes after Malak.]

- Continues with the game -


- If Rafa gets injured during the battle -

Rafa: What you're saying is right. No use escaping. Let 
bygones be bygones......!

Malak: Wait! Rafa! What are you doing!?

[Malak goes after Rafa.]

- Continues with the game -

[A knight comes out from inside the castle holding his 
wounds.]

Riovanes Knight: H...help... M...monster...

[The knight dies.]

Ramza: Rafa......Alma.... Please be safe.........

[Ramza's troop was still fighting outside the castle. Ramza 
quickly ran inside the castle to rescue his sister.]


- In a cell -
-------------

[Imprisoned at Riovanes Castle, Alma thinks about Ramza.]

(Alma's thought: Brother...)

[Suddenly a scream of terror breaks the silence in the cell.]

Alma: What!?

[The sound of battle and the screams of horror echoes through 
the cell. A knight enters the cell, covered with blood. The 
knight falls down, a pool of blood slowly pours down from his 
wounds.]

Alma: What an awful wound!

Riovanes Knight: U, ugh...help... That....monster......

[Alma holds the knight's hand.]

Knight: R...run.... It's...dangerous...

[The knight dies. Alma fearfully made her way out of the 
cell.]


- Inside of Riovanes Castle -
-----------------------------

[Ramza makes his way through the Castle. Ramza comes across a 
hallway and witnesses the dead knights bodies.]

Ramza: What's this...?

[Wiegraf sees Ramza.]

Wiegraf: There you are Ramza.

[Wiegraf slowly walks down.]

Wiegraf: Draw your sword, Ramza.

[Nothing happens.]

Wiegraf: What's wrong? If you don't, I will.

Ramza: How miserable you are... Giving your spirit to Lucavi 
just to avenge yourself. If Miluda knew about this, she'd be 
very disappointed.

Wiegraf: Revenge? Ha! That's not what I'm after.... I want far 
more than that. I don't give a damn about Miluda's murder. I 
want to bring 'chaos' into the world...to hear the screams of 
humans... But, don't worry, Ramza, I'll kill you....myself.

Ramza: The stones are evil...and so are the Zodiac Braves. The 
legends we believed in were all lies!

Wiegraf: Hya, ha, ha. So much for 'God's miracle'. Governments 
falsify history only so it favors them. But you can't blame 
them. Because people always hope for a 'miracle'. Endlessly 
complaining, lazy, nuisances... that's what the masses really 
are. Governments give the people what they want...and history 
repeats itself. Governments might well have taken advantage of 
their insecurity.... But then again, people are satisfied 
being used... 'God' is nothing but an image created out of 
their insecurity. It's their fault for knowing they're 
comfortably numb, and not doing anything about it.

Ramza: And what about you? Relying on miracles instead of 
beating your insecurities!

Wiegraf: It's because humans are insecure that they rely on 
'miracles'. Can you honestly say you're not, with any 
confidence?

Ramza: I'm trying!

Wiegraf: Then your efforts have come to an end!

[Wiegraf quickly corners Ramza, who stands guard with his 
drawn sword. Screaming, Ramza runs forward, and slashes. 
Wiegraf easily counters the attack. Ramza throws his sword at 
the surprised knight. The surprised knight quickly dodges 
Ramza's sword, unable to see the incoming blow from Ramza's 
fist. The fist strikes home on Wiegraf's mouth. Wiegraf falls 
down on his knee, a bit of blood trickles from his mouth.]

Wiegraf: You've improved...

[Wiegraf vanishes.]

Ramza: Running away? Wiegraf!!

[Ramza runs down the hallway looking for Wiegraf.]

Ramza: Come out of there! Wiegraf!!

[Wiegraf appears.]

Wiegraf: Let's have it out here...

[Wiegraf using the stone's power, turns into Velius.]

Velius: Sorry to keep you waiting.

[Ramza's troop enters the room after defeating the enemies 
outside the castle.]

Velius: I see you have some help. Then I'll do the same. Come 
out, loyal servants!

[Velius summons the Archaic Demons.]

Velius: Here I come, Ramza! Let me show you the power of evil!

[The battle was long and hard. But Ramza took the upper hand 
and stabs Velius. Ramza then cuts the throat of Velius.]

Velius: Whooooah!! They're just humans....!

[Velius and his servants vanishes leaving the holy stone in 
Ramza's hand. A scream broke the silence in the hall.]

Ramza: Alma!!


- Inside of Riovanes Castle -
-----------------------------

[Speechless from seeing the dead bodies inside the castle. 
Alma makes her way to where Vormav fought the four knights. 
The four knights were already dead with a bloody gash on their 
bodies. The horribly wounded Izlude, sat silently in the dark, 
breathing heavily.]

Izlude: ...Uhn...Uhnn...

[Alma slowly makes her way to Izlude.]

Alma: Are you all right!?

Izlude: S...sword...where is it? must....beat...him.... 
Please...give me some light. So dark...can't see a thing.

Alma: Don't worry. No need to fight anymore.

Izlude: Tell your brother...the stone...has 'evil power'... 
He's not...my father...the power made 
him...Lucavi......hack...cough...

[Izlude coughs, blood spilling out from his mouth.]

Alma: Please don't try to talk...

Izlude: What Ramza said was true... The world will end...if we 
don't kill him... Tell everyone...not time to fight....must 
cooperate... W, where's...my sword? ...Can't move...my arms.

Alma: Don't worry. I saw 'his' body in the hall. My brother 
killed him. So you don't need to fight.

Izlude: Really? That's a relief... The stone is...in my 
jacket. Give it....to your brother...

[Alma takes the stone from Izlude's jacket.]

Alma: I'll be sure to do that.

Izlude: Ugh...tired...sleepy......just rest now...

[Izlude dies.]

Man's voice: Who's there?

[Vormav walks in and sees Alma.]

Vormav: So here you are. I'll send you to the other side, too.

[Vormav walks down.]

Vormav: Don't fear. You won't suffer....

[Vormav slowly makes his way to Alma and hears a haunting 
howl.]

(Vormav's thoughts: What.... Velius was killed?)

Vormav: Your brother has the devil's own luck... Now, come 
here......

[Suddenly the holy stone shimmers.]

Velius: Why, why is Virgo responding? You...can't be... Very 
nice! I didn't expect to meet you here! I thought it would 
take 100 years to find you! I never dreamed you were the one!

[Vormav grabs Alma's hand.]

Alma: Stop!! Let go of me!!

Vormav: No need to fear. I won't kill you. Now come here!

[Vormav punches the poor girl on the stomach and carries her 
away, leaving the stone Alma got from Izlude.]


- Roof of Riovanes Castle -
---------------------------

Barinten: Fool! This is what I get? Revenge for kindness!? Why 
do you think you're even still alive today! Because of me! I 
took you out of the garbage! Or did you forget that already?

Rafa: Revenge for kindness? You burned the village! You are 
the one who killed my parents! And you say it's revenge for 
kindness? No...it's justice!

[Rafa draws her sword. Barinten quickly pulls out a gun from 
his jacket and points it at Rafa.]

Barinten: Justice? Now can you kill me? I'm your father. I 
raised you! I'd like to see you try and kill me!

[Nothing happens.]

Barinten: Hya, ha! You can't... And do you know why? Because 
your body recalls the terror... Don't worry...that terror will 
gradually subside. Hya, ha, ha.

Malak: Is that true?!!

[Malak comes out from the shadows.]

Malak: Is what you said true?

Barinten: You're turning on me, too? You're both ingrates!

[Rafa lifts her sword up to strike.]

Rafa: I'll kill you!!

Malak: Stop it! Rafa!!

[Malak pushes Rafa just when Barinten shoots. Taking a bullet 
from Barinten's gun, Malak falls down.]

Rafa: Malak!!

[Rafa holds Malak's head.]

Rafa: Malak! Are you all right!

[Ramza arrives at the scene.]

Ramza: Rafa! Malak!!

Barinten: So, you're Ramza..... Don't move. Rafa, if you want 
to help Malak, bring the stone here. Malak should have it. 
Find it!

[Rafa takes the stone from Malak's pocket.]

Barinten: That's right. Bring it to me! Hurry!

[A young woman comes up from behind Barinten and lifts him up 
by his throat.]

Barinten: Gya!!

[The girl throws Barinten off the building.]

Man's voice: Can you hand me the stone?

[A man appears from the shadows along with another young 
girl.]

Ramza: M...Marquis Elmdor. Why are you here....?

[Rafa puts the stone in her pocket.]

Elmdor: No... Give it to me...

[Ramza steps forward.]

Ramza: Rafa! Watch out!! They are not human!

Elmdor: So you're Ramza, the heretic? I never really thanked 
you for doing me this favor. Thank you.... I don't want to 
have to get rough like Vormav did. Please understand. Now, 
hand me the stone and I'll ask Vormav to return your sister.

Ramza: Where is Alma!? Bring her back!!

Elmdor: Didn't you hear me? Give me the stone first.

Ramza: No, I won't.

Elmdor: Are you abandoning her? I thought you came here to 
save her, knowing there'd be danger.

Ramza: ......

Elmdor: Very well. I didn't want to get rough but... Celia, 
Lede, go ahead! That girl has the stone. Get it back....!

[Elmdor goes in for Rafa, trying to get the stones. Seeing the 
opportunity, Ramza throws his sword at Elmdor's unarmed back. 
Elmdor tries to counter, but the sword lances his left arm's 
skin deeply. Screaming in pain, a long katana falls down from 
his grasp. Ramza draws out his second sword and goes for the 
two girls. Ramza goes berserk, slashing and attacking with his 
sword. The two girls barely manages to parry the blows.]

Elmdor: I see why Queklain and Velius were beaten...... Celia, 
Lede, retreat! Listen Ramza, If you want our stone, come to 
Limberry Castle! We'll be waiting...!

[The three disappears into the darkness.]

Rafa: Malak......

[Rafa sits beside Malak. Ramza watches them.]

Rafa: Brother, look...it's dawn. Remember how we used to chat 
till dawn about things? I wanted to travel with you. We were 
going to go to the Galthana's hometown after the war... 
Remember? Brother.... say something....

[Rafa starts to cry.]

(Ramza's thought: Alma...)

[The stone suddenly begins to glow.]

Rafa: What's this?

[Rafa brings out the stone.]

Ramza: It's responding to... Rafa's spirit.........? It 
grieves Malak's death......... Wiegraf's despair and 
resentment summoned Velius... Then...

Rafa: You, too grieve his death? Thank you...

Ramza: No, Rafa...its...

[The stone glows. A red beam of light comes down from the sky 
and enters Malak's body.]

Ramza: ...What?

[Malak moves.]

Malak: Ugh....ugh...

Rafa: Brother...Malak!!

[Malak looks up to see Rafa.]

Malak: Rafa....? Where am I....? What happened....?

[Rafa hugs Malak by his neck.]

Rafa: Brother...brother... I'm so glad......

[Malak strangles for freedom.]

Malak: That hurts, Rafa... Ha, ha, ha....


- Inside of Riovanes Castle -
-----------------------------

[There was no sign of Alma in the Castle. The only thing left 
was the shining "Pisces" stone.]


                  Malak
                  "Somebody called me...
                  I don't know. I've never 
                  heard that voice..."


                  Malak
                  "The voice said, 'Return to 
                  the ones with the right mind..."


[Ramza picks up the shining stone from the ground.]

Ramza: The Zodiac Stone...here...?


                  Ramza
                  "I didn't think the God made
                  holy stones but...more evil...
                  Well... Lucavi made them to
                  hand in this world..."


                  Malak
                  "I guess it means whoever
                  uses it will have to deal 
                  with the 'problem'..."


Ramza: Alma......


                    Tired of the standstill,
                  the Hokuten tried to capture
                 Bethla Garrison by mobilizing
                   the Knights at the front.


- Inside of Riovanes Castle -
-----------------------------

Malak: The corpses were crushed by something real powerful.

Rafa: Was your sister one of them?

Ramza: No...she wasn't.

Malak: She was in this castle. Probably gone now... Only 3 
Shrine Knights were here...No one else.

Ramza: I killed the one who turned into Lucavi. The other one, 
Izlude, was dead also... That means that the third one took my 
sister away...?

Malak: Maybe they went back to the main church at Murond. 
They're following the High Priest's orders, right? Then the 
Knight who took your sister must've gone to Murond.

Ramza: You think so? I doubt the High Priest knows the stone's 
secret. Wiegraf didn't know the secret until he contracted 
Velius... And I think that Izlude died fighting Lucavi.

Malak: What do you mean?

Ramza: Secretly controlling the war, to strengthen the 
Church's power... I'm sure that's the High Priest's true 
ambition. But collecting the stones and using the Brave Legend 
to use the people...

Malak: You mean even the High Priest's being used?

Rafa: Who took your sister away?

Malak: I believe it was Vormav.

Ramza: He's probably behind it.

Malak: What're you going to do?

Ramza: I'm going to see Delita in Zeltennia.

Malak: The one who replaced Baron Grims as leader of the Black 
Sheep Knights?

Ramza: Delita's being controlled by the Church and the Shrine 
Knights. Does Delita know the truth about Vormav?

[To find Vormav and his real intentions, Ramza and his troop 
began a trip to Zeltennia.]


                  ===========================
                  Chapter 4: SOMEBODY TO LOVE
                  ===========================


I------------------------------------------------------------I
|-- =-=-= =-= =-=-= =-= =-=- NEWS -=-= =-= =-=-= =-= =-=-= --|
|                                                            |
|                     Future of the War 2                    |
|                     ===================                    |
| Suffering through the long stalemate, Larg's Army began to | 
| mobilize. Over 80 percent of the Knights in the frontline  | 
| were Hokuten when the march on Bethla began. Bethla was a  | 
| strategic location for the invasion of Zeltennia.          |
| Occupying this area would mean an abundant food supply.    |
| This would either make or break the war effort for either  | 
| side.                                                      |
|                                                            |
|                  Monster in Riovanes Castle                |
|                  ==========================                |
| There was an incident of an attack by an "Unidentified     | 
| monster" at Lionel Castle. But now, it has occurred again  |
| at Riovanes Castle, home of Duke Barinten. Victims of the  | 
| incident are said to number over 500. The image of         |
| people's crushed heads are etched into the minds of those  | 
| who saw it.                                                |
|                                                            |
I------------------------------------------------------------I 


                     -- Zeltennia Castle --
                     ======================

[Orlandu returns to Zeltennia Castle from the front.]

Olan: Welcome back, father!

Orlandu: Yes...How are you, Olan?

Olan: Fine. How was the front?

Orlandu: You know, it's really horrible. You have to keep an 
eye on your own men...My reputation is shot...Ha, ha, ha.

Olan: Hah... Your reputation? What about Goltana's? Everyone 
says it's because of you that the other generals are still 
here.

Orlandu: Pledging life-long loyalty. That's the Orlandu way... 
Watch what you say.

Olan: I'm sorry... I'll be careful from now on.

Orlandu: Alright...what about the other matter?

Olan: The crystal-like stone was found in Goug. Another was 
found by the late Cardinal at the end of the War. The Shrine 
Knight's have been active, but we don't know their plans yet.

Orlandu: What about the spy we sent into Murond?

Olan: Unfortunately... We'd like some proof of the High 
Priest's plot and move in to peace...

[Orlandu brings out the "Libra" stone.]

Orlandu: They'll find out sooner or later. Then there will be 
real war.


                      -- Doguola Pass --
                      ==================

[On their way to Zeltennia, Ramza and his troop comes to 
Doguola Pass.]

Nanten Guard: As long as we're here, you cannot pass.

[Having no choice the troop kills the Nanten Guards. Ramza and 
his troop decides to rest at Bervenia Free City.]


                    -- Bervenia Free City --
                    ========================

[Ramza meet a young lady while exploring the city.]

Meliadoul: I'm Meliadoul! I came to avenge my brother!!

Ramza: Avenge your brother? What are you talking about?

Meliadoul: You're denying it!? Izlude, whom you killed at 
Riovanes, was my brother!! I'm going to kill you, not for the 
High Priest, but for my brother!!

Ramza: Wait! Izlude, I didn't kill him! Do you know What 
happened at Riovanes? That wasn't the doing of any human! 
Izlude was killed by Lucavi!

Meliadoul: Lucavi!? Lucavi appeared and killed my brother!? 
Ha, ha! That's pretty wild! Can't you come up with a better 
lie than that?

Ramza: You're the same as Izlude! You don't know the truth! 
You don't realize you're just pathetic puppets, dancing for 
the bad guys!! The stones aren't just objects of faith, but 
have 'power' to work miracles! That 'power' is different for 
each side, but they're using it for evil! Wake up, Meliadoul!! 
Vormav's deceiving you!

Meliadoul: You expect me to believe that? Ridiculous!! Vormav 
is our father!!

Ramza: !!

Meliadoul: My brother really wanted to save this rotten 
kingdom! Our plans may be violent... but 'reform' requires 
'pain'! If there's no 'pain', there's no true 'reform'!! A 
baby like you who can't even deal with your own fate can never 
change the world!

Ramza: I beg you! Please trust me! I didn't kill your brother! 
I'm not the one you want to fight! Lucavi exists! Your father 
is no longer human! He's a devil, possessed by Lucavi!!

Meliadoul: Cut it out, Ramza!

[Ramza sees Meliadoul advancing towards him. It made sense, 
she was going to show no mercy. Ramza somehow had to make her 
vulnerable. Ramza pulls out his sword and attacks. Meliadoul 
manages to parry the blows. She slashes at Ramza. Ramza ducks 
and sees the open space between his sword and her armor. 
Thinking quickly, Ramza uses his armor break ability. 
Meliadoul's armor shatters into pieces leaving her vulnerable. 
She attacks madly. Ramza knocks 'Defender' (sword) out of her 
grasp.]

Meliadoul: Ugh... You're...strong!! No wonder Wiegraf lost! 
Listen! The next time we meet is the day you die! Remember 
that!

[Having no weapon and armor, she flees into the darkness.]


                      -- Finath River --
                      ==================

[After resting at Bervenia Free City, Ramza and his troop 
comes at Finath River.]

Ramza: This river's deeper than I thought. Must be careful.

[The troop successfully crosses the river and makes their way 
to Zeltennia.]


- Church in Zeltennia -
-----------------------

[Ramza prays inside the church. Delita walks inside and kneels 
beside Ramza.]

Delita: A 'heretic', coming to Church...pretty bold...

Ramza: I have no time...So, I'll ask you straight out. Why did 
the High Priest send you to Goltana?

Delita: You came to Zeltennia to ask me that? ...Fine, I'll 
tell you. My duty is to assassinate Goltana and Orlandu...

Ramza: What...!?

Delita: Shh...lower your voice. This is the real plan... We've 
trying to incite those dissatisfied with the government to 
revolt, Thereby causing people to distrust the government even 
more. Both armies will try to put down the revolts, but won't 
have enough soldiers. Then what? They'll finish things trying 
to break the deadlock.

Ramza: All these recent revolts were the High Priest's plan. 
And to stop these, both armies are leading to Bethla. 
Everything is as you planned...

Delita: Not quite yet. Because... During the battle Larg and 
Goltana will both be killed by someone. Of course the leaders 
will also be killed... Nantens' Orlandu, Hokutens' Zalbag, and 
Dycedarg... Losing their leaders, both armies will stop 
fighting and turn to peace...

Ramza: Then, the Church will become the 'mediator'...

Delita: And the people will support the Church entirely. They 
even threw in the Zodiac Brave Legend.

Ramza: But the Zodiac Stone...

Delita: Right now, you're the church's biggest obstacle.

Ramza: Aren't you trying to get the stones also?

[Delita stands up.]

Delita: I'm not working for the Church!

Ramza: What do you mean?

Delita: It means I'll kill you if I have to. Don't worry. Our 
reasons may be different, but we want the same thing. As long 
as we want the same thing...we won't be enemies.

Ramza: Come with me...

Delita: Sorry, I can't. She needs me.

Ramza: She...?

Delita: Prince or Princess... It doesn't matter as long as 
they are easily controlled. The High Priest's plan calls for a 
puppet government.

Ramza: You're just using Ovelia for your own ambitions?

Delita: ...I don't know. But...

[Ramza stands up.]

Ramza: But what?

Delita: I would give my life for her...

Ramza: Delita...

Delita: Is that strange?

Ramza: No, I believe you.

[Suddenly a gunshot breaks the conversation between the two.]

Familiar Voice: Ramza! The Church is surrounded!! Come out 
quietly!

Ramza: That voice...It's Zalmo!?

[Ramza and Delita goes out the church.]


- Church outside the town -
---------------------------

Zalmo: You're the Black Knight, Hyral! Why are you here?

Delita: Now that you've seen me, I cannot let you live! C'mon, 
Ramza!!

Ramza: They're unknowingly part of the High Priest's plot! If 
you explain it well, they'd understand...

Delita: Are you still so naive? ...Well, good luck!

Zalmo: Do you know what you're doing? He's a top criminal! 
Anyone who helps him is guilty, too! You, leader of the Black 
Knights, dare oppose the Trial Examiners?

Delita: I know who you are! That's why I must kill you all!

Zalmo: What!? You audacious fool!! Your actions will disrupt 
the world order and oppose God's Natural Providence!! Are you 
trying to rebel against God!?

Delita: Disrupt the 'order'? This 'order' you talk about is 
just a matter of your own convenience!! Using God as an 
'order' to control the people is absurd! You have no right to 
take advantage of the innocent!!

Ramza: I don't care about God! I just want you to see the 
'truth'!

Zalmo: 'Truth'? Are you saying this is not 'truth'? You had a 
chance to clear the charges in the Cardinal murder/Zodiac 
Stone robbery. But you blew it by running away! That proved 
your guilt! We've already decided you're guilty and sentenced 
you! It's too late to say anything!

Ramza: Then I guess I must fight!!

[Zalmo thought the two wouldn't dare to touch him. But he was 
wrong. Ramza and Delita charges at Zalmo running their swords 
through his unarmed body.]

Zalmo: Oh, God...please punish the wicked.

[Zalmo falls down on the ground, dead.]

Delita: What're you going to do, Ramza?

Ramza: I had 2 reasons for coming to Zeltennia. One was to see 
you. The other is to see Count Orlandu.

Delita: Thundergod Cid?

Ramza: I want his cooperation to uncover the Church's plot.

Delita: How?

Ramza: I have strong 'proof' that will uncover the wrong-
doing.

Delita: The 'Germonik scriptures'!

Ramza: When I met Olan, the Count's son-in-law, He promised me 
if I had proof, he would stop the High Priest's conspiracy.

Delita: Olan, huh?

[A young lady appears from the shadows.]

Delita: It's ok... She's one of us. Several people were sent 
from Murond to help me. She's one of them.

Magician Woman: Help...? More like to keep an eye on you.

Delita: Hey, c'mon. She knows everything. She's the only one 
we can trust in the Goltana Army.

Magician Woman: You're the youngest Beoulve, Ramza, right? My 
name is Balmafula. Nice to meet you.

Delita: And...what do you want?

Balmafula: The Hokuten are moving.

Delita: Is Ft. Bethla the target?

[The woman nods.]

Balmafula: Count Orlandu left for Bethla a while ago. 
Goltana's heading for Bethla... along with your Black Sheep 
Knights.

Delita: A little too late... The battle won't end...

Ramza: I'm not giving up. I'll persuade the Count before any 
more die.

Delita: ...I guess it's good bye, Ramza.

Ramza: Stay alive, Delita.

Delita: You too...

[Delita walks over to Ramza and stretches out his hand. Ramza 
and Delita shakes hands. Ramza then disappears into the 
shadows.]

Balmafula: You're letting him go?

Delita: I know what he'll do.

Balmafula: You even use your friends.

Delita: Shut up! What do you know?

Balmafula: I hate people like you.

Delita: Hurry up and go!!

[Balmafula leaves.]


                       -- Bed Desert --
                       ================

[Ramza and his troop heads for Bethla. Along the way, the 
party comes across Bed Desert.]

Balk: ...They're all spread? Nice wind. Should be enough to 
float them around in the air for most of the day.

[Ramza and his troop comes out.]

Balk: Uh-oh...Didn't think I'd see you here...

Ramza: What are the Shrine Knights doing here? You said, 
"spread"... What the hell did you spread?

Balk: Wanna know...? I guess I can tell you because there's 
nothing you can do now.

Ramza: Spill it! What did you spread?

Balk: This!

[The Temple Knight throws some kind of an orb at the troop. 
The orb explodes spreading poison on the troop.]

Ramza: Poison!?

Balk: That's right. I spread this to the Hokuten Province. Any 
soldier who inhales this will be too sick to fight!

Ramza: The High Priest doesn't want Goltana to win the war!

Balk: That's correct. If the Hokuten can't fight their best, 
the Nanten will open the fortress... Totally annihilating it. 
Making it a good chance to kill Goltana and Orlandu. Of 
course, plans are set to kill Larg in the confusion. It'll 
probably be easier to kill him in the confusion over the 
poisoning.

Ramza: What!?

Balk: You should be happy! The war will end! From now on, 
we'll be the center of authority! The people want that! No 
more of you aristocrats ruling the kingdom.

Ramza: I won't let that happen! I'll end the war differently!

Balk: I knew you'd say that!

[Ramza pulls out his sword just in time to hear a gunshot. 
Ramza quickly rolled left. The bullet misses Ramza by few 
inches. Keeping his eyes on Balk's gun, Ramza charges at Balk. 
Another bullet misses Ramza, but manages to lance his ribs 
skin deeply. Balk tries to reload his gun. Ramza runs at Balk. 
With one sweep from his sword, the gun flies away from Balk's 
grasp. Ramza sends another blow from his sword. Balk watches 
the sword cut through his flesh. Screaming, the knight falls 
down on his knees.]

Balk: Dammit! I'm not going to die in a place like this.

[Can't resist the pain, Balk falls down on the ground and 
dies.]

Ramza: I have to hurry...

[Meanwhile... Nanten Knights tries to capture Orlandu.]

Count Orlandu: What do you mean? Suspicion of conspiracy?

Nanten Knight: ...Please. Obey the roder.

Orlandu: Nonsense. Why would I be involved in a conspiracy?

[Goltana enters the room.]

Goltana: It's too bad, Cid. Attempting rebellion...

Orlandu: You can't be serious? I'd never think of...

Goltana: I have proof. You've been secretly planning with the 
Church to overthrow me.

Orlandu: Nonsense!! Who told you such a lie!?

Goltana: You still deny it? Hearing of your betrayal, the High 
Priest notified me personally.

Orlandu: It's the High Priest's plot!

Goltana: The High Priest's plot? How dare you say that? Can 
you prove it?

Orlandu: I've been serving you over 20 years and you don't 
trust me?

Goltana: ...I cannot go to war without your Knights. I am very 
disappointed, Cid... Take him away!!

[Orlandu gets taken way by the knights. Delita and Balmafula 
enters the room and kneels down before Goltana.]

Delita: Yes, Your Excellency.

Goltana: Continue your contact with Murond. If we get an 
official edict, overturning Larg will be easy.

Delita: The High Priest's already decided. No need to worry.

Goltana: Thanks for your trouble. I will grand you command 
over the Nanten Knights. You will become a Holy Knight.

Delita: I appreciate your kindness!

Goltana: I'm counting on you, Delita. I know I can trust you.

Delita: I won't let you down.

[Ramza and his troop finally comes at Bethla Garrison.]


1. South Wall of Bethla Garrison.
2. North Wall of Bethla Garrison.


(If you chose south wall)

- South Wall of Bethla Garrison -
---------------------------------

Nanten Knights: Who are you? Where did you come from?

Ramza: We're not Hokutens! We're here to see Count Orlandu! 
Present us immediately!

Knight: Here to see Count Orlandu? So you're the ones hired to 
assassinate Lord Goltana? Fool! Count Orlandu's already been 
captured and imprisoned! But don't worry, you'll see him 
soon...in prison!!

[Ramza's troop kills the Nanten Knights.]

Ramza: We have to do something before the armies collide!

- Continues with the game -


(If you chose north wall)

- North Wall of Bethla Garrison -
---------------------------------

Knight: I never thought Hokuten would attack from the front! 
We'll get them all at once! Attack!!

[Ramza's troop kills the Nanten Knights.]

Ramza: We have to do something before the armies collide!

- Continues with the game -


[The Hokutens fell one by one from Balk's poison. It 
eventually got to Dycedarg and Larg.]

Zalbag's Voice: What happened here!?

[Zalbag appears at the scene and sees the dead bodies of the 
Hokuten Knights. Zalbag makes his way over to a poisoned 
knight.]

Zalbag: Are you ok!? Pull yourself together!!

[The female knight coughs.]

Hokuten Knight: I, I'm fine... just my head...hurts.

[The knight falls down.]

Zalbag: Hey, get a grip!

[Dycedarg comes out.]

Dycedarg: Mosfungus poison has been spread in the air...

[Dycedarg falls on his knee. Zalbag helps his brother.]

Zalbag: Brother!

Dycedarg: Don't worry, I'm alright... Where's is His 
Excellency?

Zalbag: We don't know.

Larg's Voice: ...Here, Zalbag... Dycedarg...

[Zalbag and Dycedarg comes up and sees Larg lying on the 
ground]

Zalbag: You Excellency!! Call the Chemist!!

[Dycedarg makes his way over to Larg.]

Dycedarg: ...How do you feel?

Larg: My head hurts... I feel sick... But...I'll be alright. 
I'll feel better in a while.

Dycedarg: That's a problem.

Larg: What?

[Zalbag brings out a dagger and stabs Larg.]

Larg: Urrgh!! Wha...What is this!?

Zalbag: Brother!!

[Larg struggles. Dycedarg pushes the dagger deeper into Larg's 
body.]

Dycedarg: Quiet, Zalbag!

Larg: You...betraying me...? You killed Balbanes... not only 
to inherit the Beoulve estate... But, to kill...me...

[Dycedarg pulls out the dagger from Larg's body. Larg spits 
out bloods. Dycedarg stands up, breathing heavily. More blood 
trickles down from Larg's mouth. Larg dies.]

Zalbag: Brother...No... Did you... 'poison'?

Dycedarg: Ugh...Ugh...... Not me. It was done by the allies 
who want Beoulve to take center stage...

Zalbag: Why have they...

Dycedarg: Duke Larg died in battle, but we'll carry on his 
will...

Zalbag: But, the plot...

Dycedarg: Just put a dagger into one of their hands... He's 
the assassin sent by the Nanten. Alright...?

[Dycedarg falls down.]

Zalbag: Brother!!


- In front of Bethla Garrison's Sluice -
----------------------------------------

Ramza: Oh! This floodgate! If I open it and release the water, 
they want be able to fight! How do I open the floodgate? 
Probably by pulling the levers on both sides! I think I see 
them...but first I have to get there...

[Ramza makes his way over to one of the levers.]

Ramza: ...Ok, I'll just pull this.

[Ramza pulls the lever.]

Ramza: And pull that other lever, too...

[Ramza makes his way over to the last lever.]

Ramza: This is the last one!

[Ramza pulls the lever. The water gates opens, pouring out 
water. Breaking the water gates at Bethla, Larg and Goltana's 
attack were avoided. Olan, Ramza and Balmafula made their way 
to save Orlandu.]

Olan: Father!!

[The three enters the cell.]

Olan: Father! You're safe!!

[Ramza and Balmafula kneels down.]

Orlandu: Yes, I'm fine. You must be Ramza. You've grown. I 
recognized you.

Ramza: You know me?

Orlandu: Of course. It's no wonder you don't remember me. You 
were only 3 or 4 years old when I last saw you. You were 
almost hurt, trying to hold my sword. Your father scolded you 
and you cried... Ha, ha, ha. Thank you for coming. Both of you 
can relax now.

[Ramza and Balmafula gets up on their feet.]

Olan: There were minimal losses from both sides. Thanks to 
Ramza, we were able to avoid all-out war.

Orlandu: Is that so? Balbanes sure has a fine son. Let me 
thank you on behalf of everyone, Ramza.

Ramza: No need for thanks. I only did what was natural.

Orlandu: You've inherited Balbanes' soul. He should be 
pleased...

Balmafula: With your permission... Goltana's planning to kill 
you tomorrow. Please escape.

Olan: Father, what she says is true. For now, let's...

Orlandu: I know...I can't stay here while Goltana's like that. 
Olan, my son... this battle will end soon. I'll go with him. I 
must stop the High Priest, no matter what...

Olan: Father, I'll go with you!!

Orlandu: No. You must return to Zeltennia and protect Ovelia. 
Ovelia is the rightful heir to the throne of the kingdom. It 
is your duty to protect her. Do you understand?

Olan: ...Yes.

Orlandu: Alright, Ramza?

Ramza: Of course.

Orlandu: Then, let's go before someone sees us.

[Angry from the failure, Goltana ordered Delita to come.]

Goltana: What's this!? Who opened the floodgate?

[Delita enters the room and kneels down before Goltana.]

Delita: Yes, Your Excellency?

Goltana: Gather the soldiers and attack the Hokuten!

Delita: We can't even move because of the water.

Goltana: Neither can they. And that's our edge! Now is our 
chance to make them think we won't attack! We must move now...

Delita: That's not a good idea.

Goltana: What!?

[Delita drew his sword and charged at Goltana. With one 
motion, the sword struck home.]

Goltana: Oh...y, you...!

Delita: Nobody's wants you to be King!!

[Delita pulls out his sword. Blood pours out from Goltana's 
body as he falls down on the ground, dead.]

Delita: Come in!

[Balmafula comes in, along with Orlandu. Orlandu falls on his 
knees before Delita.]

Delita: You understand, your death won't be waste.

Grevados as 'Cid': Everything's guided by the will of St. 
Ajora...

[Delita stabs his sword through his body. He then pulls out 
his word and puts the sword in his sheath. The fake Orlandu 
silently fells on the ground.]

Balmafula: The real Cid and Ramza have escaped.

Delita: Good...Pray that Ramza will take care of the rest.


                  Having lost their leaders,
                  the High Priest proposed a
                   mediator for the armies.
                  But, since they were both
                  still strong, they refused.

                     I headed for Limberry
                      looking for Alma...


[On their way, at Zarghidas.]


                  -- Zarghidas Trade City --
                  ==========================

Flower Girl: Would you like a flower? It's only 1 gil.

Ramza: What? Flowers?

Flower Girl: What's wrong? You've never seen a flower before?

Ramza: O...Of course.

Flower Girl: Won't you buy it?

Ramza: 1. Sorry, not this time.
       2. Ok, I'll buy it.
       ------------------------------------------


Ramza: < 1. Sorry, not this time. >
-----------------------------------------------------

Ramza: Sorry, not this time.

Flower Girl: Alright, that's ok.

[The girl leaves.]

Ramza: Oh, I feel bad now...

[Ramza walks off.]

- Continues with the game -


Ramza: < 2. Ok, I'll buy it. > 
-----------------------------------------

Ramza: Alright, I'll buy it.

Flower Girl: Really!? Thank you!

[Ramza buys a flower from the girl.]

Flower Girl: In a place like this... Not a lot of people buy 
flowers around here. When is my knight in shining armor going 
to take me away from here...? Oh, I'm sorry. Excuse me for 
babbling. Thank you so much for buying the flower. Bye.

Ramza: It's just the day and age.

[Ramza walks off.]

- Continues with the game -

[After staying at Zarghidas Ramza and his troop had to pass 
Germinas Peak to reach Limberry.]


                      -- Germinas Peak --
                      ===================

Bandit Boss: If you wanna pass, leave your money. And get yer 
hand offa that sword if you wanna live!

Bandit: Boss! This guy's wanted! Yeah...with a huge bounty! 
May be it's better to kill him and get the reward, than to 
take their money now.

Bandit Boss: Yeah, I saw his face on a wanted poster. We're no 
bounty hunters, but what the hell... Let's kill him for the 
gil!!

[With that, the bandit charged at Ramza. Ramza pulled out his 
sword and counter-attacked the bandit. Ramza's sword struck 
home beneath the bandit's neck. After defeating the bandits, 
Ramza and his troop only had to cross Poeskas Lake to reach 
Limberry.]


                      -- Poeskas Lake --
                      ==================

Poeskas Lake Ghost: Who disturbs our sleep...? ......!! You 
have the Zodiac Stones...? Then, hand it over...! With that, 
we can go to a higher dimension...!!

[Ramza and his troop defeats the ghosts and proceeds to 
Limberry. Rofel, a Temple Knight of the Murond Glabados 
Church. Under Vormav's order, Rofel goes to the Beoulve family 
to form an alliance with Dycedarg. But Rofel's plea for 
revenge against the Church was denied by Dycedarg.]


- Inside of Igros Castle -
--------------------------

Rofel: I see you have no intention of agreeing with our 
arbitration.

Dycedarg: That's right. His Excellency's wish to unify the 
kingdoms... Rather, until King Orinas is recognized as the 
true king, we won't stop fighting. As long as the Beoulves 
lives, we won't give up.

Rofel: Who do you think let you assassinate Duke!?

Dycedarg: What a thing to say... Larg was killed by someone 
sent by the Nanten. Or... are you saying you sent the 
assassin...?

Ramza: So you're definitely not going to cooperate?

Dycedarg: If we wanted to, we could easily beat you. Don't 
forget that...

Ramza: 'Us'? Do you remember what the 'poison' was that took 
out the Hokuten?

Dycedarg: I think it was extracted from Mosfungus...

Ramza: Right. Unless you take large doses, it won't kill you. 
But even small amounts over a long time, can be deadly.

Dycedarg: ...

Rofel: Over time, you develop symptoms similar to a cold. 
You're not fully aware of your conditions until it's too 
late...

Dycedarg: ...

Rofel: Didn't your father die from cold complications?

Dycedarg: What are you saying?

Rofel: I heard you know a lot about poison...

Dycedarg: So...what are you saying?

Rofel: If you bury a body with Mosfungus... The Mosfungus 
begins to grow out of the body. Did you know that?

Dycedarg: ...

Rofel: Such trivial things... Oh yeah, I've got something for 
you from the High Priest.

[The Temple Knight brings out a shining stone and puts it on 
the table. The stone glows.]

Dycedarg: What's this?

Rofel: It's a holy Zodiac Stone, from Murond. He'd like you to 
have this to show his trust in you...

[The stone glows again. Zalbag is seen behind the door 
listening to the conversation. Meanwhile, Ramza and his troop 
comes at the gate of Limberry Castle.]


- At the gate of Limberry Castle -
----------------------------------

Ramza: Nobody here...Are these ruins really deserted? The 
entrance is open...

[Ramza makes his way near the entrance.]

Ramza: Something's not right... This feels like the time I 
faced Queklain and Velius...

Lady's Voice: Welcome to Limberry Castle.

[A young lady appears from the gate above.]

Celia: We've been waiting for you.

Lady's Voice: We have a warm welcome for you.

[Lede appears from the darkness.]

Lede: We'll burn you to death. So don't run away.

[Demons appears from the darkness.]

Ramza: Damn! A trap!!

[One of Ramza's wizards incinerated one of the demons with 
Flare. Ramza and Orlandu killed the other demons.]

Celia: If you want your dear sister back, be brave and enter!

Lede: We'll be waiting inside. Hurry up!

[Celia and Lede disappears.]

Ramza: Alma!!


- Inside of Limberry Castle -
-----------------------------

[Vormav and Elmdor had a meeting.]

Elmdor: Velius and Queklain are both gone... We're the only 
ones alive now. Adramelk's caught in the 'loophole'...

Vormav: Don't worry about him. He'll soon be summoned to the 
'other side'...

Elmdor: Did they find a suitable 'body' for him?

Vormav: Yes, the Zodiac Stone chose one. Just as 'they' chose 
'us', the stones will choose the 'body'!

[Elmdor gets up from his seat and walks over to the window.]

Elmdor: Really... Now we have to bring back 'Bloody Angel', 
using the 'Ultimate Power'! ...Then even without the stones or 
a suitable 'body', we can come and go at will. Did they find a 
good 'body' for 'Angel'? Don't tell me it's that girl...

Vormav: There's only one 'body' suitable for 'Angel'...That 
girl. Now we must find the "Way to the Dead City".

[Celia appears.]

Celia: He's here.

[Lede also appears.]

Lede: I lured him into the castle. What shall I do with him?

Elmdor: I've been waiting for you, Ramza. Payback time for 
what happened at Riovanes...

Vormav: Be careful, he's strong. He even beat Velius.

Elmdor: Don't worry about me. Let me handle it. Go find the 
"Way to the Dead City".

Vormav: Ok. Be careful.

[Vormav disappears.]

Elmdor: Alright, I'm going!


- Inside of Limberry Castle -
-----------------------------

[Ramza and his squad comes before Elmdor, Lede and Celia.]

Elmdor: It's payback time for all the disgrace from Riovanes 
Castle!

Ramza: Alma...where's my sister? Where is she!?

Elmdor: You'll have to beat me to find out!

[With that the battle began. Ramza's best monk scored a blow 
on Celia's and Lede's jaw. Celia and Lede turns into an Ultima 
Demon before Ramza and his troops eyes. Ramza slashed wildly 
with his sword on one of the Ultima Demon. The Demon fell down 
with a haunting sound. Orlandu released Statis Sword on the 
other Demon, freezing it. Ramza threw a devastating uppercut 
at Elmdor. The uppercut connected, Elmdor falls down on his 
knees.]

Elmdor: Ugh...you're strong... I thought you'd be strong... 
but with this 'body'. I can't seem to...

[Elmdor vanishes.]

     Elmdor
     Underground...Come down...
     Your sister is there...

Ramza: You're not getting away!!

[Ramza and his troop hurried down to Limberry Castle's 
underground and finds Elmdor.]


- Underground cemetery of Limberry Castle -
-------------------------------------------

Ramza: Elmdor! Give up! You don't have a chance! Let Alma go!

Elmdor: Oh, you fool... She's not in this castle! The only 
ones here are the spirits of the dead...

[The dead arises from their coffins.]

Elmdor: Your life shall also end, here in this graveyard!

[Elmdor, using the stone's power, turns into Zalera, the 
demon.]

Zalera: Let's settle this once and for all...!

[Meliadoul enters the room.]

Meliadoul: What? The Marquis -- a monster? This...is the power 
of the Zodiac Stone?

Ramza: Now you know what I said was true! Your brother Izlude 
died because he found the truth and fought them!

Meliadoul: Oh...my God! Does Father...Vormav know that?

Ramza: Well...

Zalera: Ha, ha, ha... So, you're Vormav's daughter? Just like 
Izlude, you 'body' isn't suitable for us... But your father's 
was...

Meliadoul: Then, father was...!

Zalera: Yes, he's no longer your father. He's now a blood 
member of Darkness. But no matter...For now you, and Ramza 
will die here!

Meliadoul: What you said was true... I'm sorry...

Ramza: It's ok, Meliadoul. Let's avenge Izlude!

[One of Ramza's lancers leaped up. Meliadoul and Ramza's 
remaining troop fought the dead bodies, while Orlandu released 
Night Sword on Zalera, the terrifying red light came crashing 
down, injuring him. The lancer crashed down on Zalera as well. 
Right at that moment, Ramza struck his sword through Zalera's 
body, followed by another sword, the sword went straight 
through Zalera's chest. With two sword's embedded in his body, 
Zalera fell down on the ground.]

Zalera: Hashmalum...sorry. I'm leaving the rest to you...

[With that the demon exploded leaving the stone on the ground. 
Ramza picks up the stone. Meliadoul brings out a holy stone 
from her pocket.]

Meliadoul: Secret's hidden in this Stone... I never dreamed! 
It may be 'divine', but I thought it was just a strange rock. 
I never thought collecting them would make a miracle.

[The stone glows.]

Ramza: Neither you nor Izlude were informed... Even Wiegraf 
didn't know until he turned Lucavi. So even the High Priest's 
plot's being used by Vormav.

Meliadoul: What're they after?

[Ramza shakes his head.]

Ramza: That, I don't know. If they want to, they could destroy 
an entire brigade. Just like at Riovanes. But they don't use 
that power outright. There must be a reason why.

Meliadoul: Maybe they can't use their power outright? The 
Lucavi of legend, was an unbeatable, ferocious monster.

Ramza: That's right. They don't seem to be the 'immortal 
evils' the legends say.

Meliadoul: Legends do tend to over exaggerate. Maybe Lucavi 
was just another monster, after all.

Ramza: I hope so...

[Meliadoul hands the stone to Ramza.]

Meliadoul: I'm going to give you this Zodiac Stone. In return, 
let me go along. I want to know why my father... Besides...

Ramza: Besides?

Meliadoul: I want to know why he gave away the 'Capricorn' 
Stone. Why it was given to Lord Dycedarg... I need to know.

Ramza: To my brother? Why?

[Ramza headed for Igros to find some answers.]


- Inside of Zeltennia Castle -
------------------------------

[Ovelia stood near the window. Suddenly the sound of battle 
broke the silence in the room.]

Harsh Voice: Where did he escape to?

Another Voice: You search over there! He was wounded trying to 
escape! He must still be near!

[Olan, covered with blood, enters the room where Ovelia is.]

Queen Ovelia: Olan!! Are you ok!? What an awful wound. Be 
strong...

Olan: Ovelia, your Highness... I must tell you...

Ovelia: Don't speak...

Olan: Please... Listen to me... My stepfather Orlandu didn't 
murder Lord Goltana... Suspected of conspiracy, my stepfather 
escaped Bethla with Ramza Beoulve... Now, he's fighting to 
stop the High Priest's evil plot.

Ovelia: I trusted Uncle not to start any rebellious moment...

Harsh Boice: No good! The door won't open!

Another Voice: Highness! Are you safe!?

Voice: Please! Open this door!

Ovelia: Then...who? Who killed Lord Goltana?

Olan: It was...

[The two knight breaks the door and comes in.]

Nanten Knight: Your Highness... Are you alright?

Nanten Knight: Here he is!!

[Delita enters the room. The two knights falls down on their 
knees.]

Delita: You there, leave this room.

Nanten Knight: Huh?

Delita: I said, leave this room!

Nanten Knight: B, But...

Delita: I'll not say it again!

Nanten Knight: Y, Yes...

[The two knights leaves the room. Balmafula enters the room. 
Delita walks over at Olan.]

Ovelia: Please! Don't be rough on Olan!

Delita: Such a foolish thing you did, Olan.

Olan: You...traitor.

Delita: Oh, please. You know you wanted this too. Look around. 
See anyone who's really saddened? You should thank me for 
'killing' your father...now nobody will be after him.

Olan: Stop that nonsense!

Ovelia: Why, Why did you do such a thing?

Delita: I told you I'd make you into a real monarch.

Ovelia: You liar! You're just trying to use me!

Delita: You don't trust me?

Ovelia: ...

Delita: Well...Ovelia?

Ovelia: I'd like to trust you... But...

Delita: I must talk to Olan. Go to your room...

Ovelia: Please... Be gentle with him...

Delita: Ok. I promise...

[Ovelia goes down, slams her room's door and secretly 
eavesdrops the conversation.]

Olan: I don't care. All I wanted was to clear my stepfather. 
Do it in one deathblow...

Delita: What are you talking about? I can't have you dead.

Olan: What am I worth to you alive?

Delita: You'll work under me.

Olan: Ha, ha, ha. Don't be a fool. I refuse, even if it means 
death!

Delita: You cannot refuse. I'll bring down the Hokuten and 
build Ovelia's kingdom. Of course I'll kill the High Priest. 
I'm not his dog.

Olan: Are you serious? What the hell...?

Delita: I'm sure you know I'm right. What I'm planing to do is 
completely justified. A former squire, now in control of 
Knights, and restoring order to the world. It's easy to 
understand. This's the 'hero' the people have been demanding.

Olan: For that, you're going to take advantage of everything?

Delita: Is that wrong?

[Ovelia, in disbelieve, runs in to her room. Hearing Delita's 
words Balmafula steps forward.]

Delita: What's the matter? Want to kill me? I know the High 
Priest sent you as an 'assassin'! And if I betray you, you'll 
kill me, right?

[Delita slowly walks at Balmafula. Balmafula steps back and 
draws a small dagger.]

Delita: Go on... Stab me with that dagger. What's the matter? 
Go on... If you don't kill me... I'll kill you!

[The screen fades. The sound of scream is heard.]


- Graveyard -
-------------

[After listening to the secret meeting between Rofel and 
Dycedarg. As Rofel said, there is a poisonous mushroom, 
Mosfungus, growing in the ground. Learning this, Zalbag headed 
to his father's resting place at the graveyard.]

Zalbag: This way...

Chemist: Mister, wait...

Zalbag: Father... Come here. I'd like you to see something...

[Zalbag picks up a mushroom from Balbanes's tomb.]

Zalbag: This...

[He throws the mushroom at the chemist.]

Zalbag: Do you know what that is?

Chemist: Of course! This is the Mosfungus, a Mushroom. It's 
poison isn't that deadly, though.

Zalbag: No wonder...

[The chemist throws the mushroom away.]

Chemist: Mister... We'd best be going.

Zalbag: Why are you so scared?

Chemist: Don't you know? Mosfungus only grows on corpses... 
And tombs with Mosfungus corpses are major bad luck. They say 
Mosfungused corpses mean the end with that family's 
generation.

Zalbag: Ok... You may go now.

[Zalbag throws a coin at the chemist.]

Chemist: Heh, heh...thanks, mister.

Zalbag: You must keep this a secret.

Chemist: I will.

[The chemist disappears into the darkness.]

Zalbag: Father...


- At the gate of Igros Castle -
-------------------------------

[Ramza stood in front gate of Igros Castle.]

Ramza: ...No guards. Strange...

[Ramza sees a chocobo standing next to the gate.]

Ramza: This Chocobo is my brother Zalbag's...

[Ramza goes near the gate.]

Ramza: That's it.

[Ramza enters Igros Castle.]


- Inside of Igros Castle -
--------------------------

[After finding out that Dycedarg had murdered Balbanes. Zalbag 
went to Igros Castle to avenge his father's death. After 
seeing Dycedarg inside the castle, Zalbag knocks his brother 
down on the floor and draws his sword.]

Dycedarg: Zalbag! Have you gone crazy? What's this all about!?

Zalbag: Brother...and you call yourself a Beoulve?

Dycedarg: You mean Duke Larg? He'd have died anyway! Think 
about it. He couldn't even fight without relying on others for 
help! It was a mistake for anybody like him to even start a 
war!

Zalbag: It's bad to kill one's lord, but my father... I'll 
never forgive that. Why him? Why'd you have to kill him?

Dycedarg: What? I don't know what you're talking about!

Zalbag: The Duke's dying words... I couldn't believe them! 
Why, brother!? Why did you kill father!?

[Hokuten Knight comes out.]

Hokuten Knight: Dycedarg!!

Dycedarg: Zalbag's insane!!

[More knights comes in and surrounds Zalbag. Dycedarg gets up 
on his feet.]

Dycedarg: Capture him!

Zalbag: Brother!!

Ramza: Zalbag!!

Zalbag: Ramza! You were right! Our brother's started a war and 
killed Larg to satisfy his own ambition! This is disgraceful 
and cannot be forgiven!!

Ramza: Zalbag!!

[Zalbag sidestepped just in time to counter the attack from 
one of the knights. Zalbag attacked the knight, the sword cut 
through the knight's armor as if it were cotton. The first 
knight fell to the ground, dead as a doornail. Ramza pulled 
out his sword from his sheath and dashed at the Hokuten 
Knights. Ramza hurled his sword with all his strength at his 
enemies, the sword struck one of the knights.]

Dycedarg: Fools! Why won't you obey? Why do you defy me? The 
powerful must rule the powerless ones! It's our duty! Even the 
once mighty Royal Family has fallen and lost their power! It's 
only natural for us to take their place! It's the right way to 
use our power!! Why can't you understand!?

Zalbag: Don't you have any 'justice', Brother!? The Beoulve 
name is only for the brave! You aren't worthy of it, Brother!

Dycedarg: 'Justice'? I'm embarrassed to think you even said 
that! You think such pretty ideals can govern the people!? Why 
are you able to use that sword? Why do you think the people 
call you a hero? It's all because of me!! Because I dirtied my 
hands you're here! You should be thanking me, not despising 
me!!






[Zalbag, in rage, ran towards Dycedarg. Ramza leaped out of 
the way as two swords sailed narrowly beside him. Ramza pulled 
out his second sword and stabbed the two knights with his 
swords. The two knights fell to the ground as Ramza pulled out 
his swords. Zalbag reached Dycedarg and grabbed him by his 
hair and lifted his sword. Dycedarg struggled to free himself 
and pulled out a long sword that hung at his belt. Zalbag's 
sword went straight through his body and out.]

Dycedarg: If only you hadn't interfered... Ivalice would've 
been ours, the Beoulve's... You fools...

[Dycedarg falls down on the ground. Suddenly Dycedarg changes 
into a demon. The stone shines and disappears.]

Adramelk: Heh, heh...So that's it...Now I know... Young fool. 
Here's a souvenir for you on the way to Hell. I killed 
Balbanes... Yes, I did it... The Beoulve's finally had their 
chance to rule... But he blew it! That idiot! So I killed 
him... Even a sword master can't fight poison!

[Adramelk uses his power against Zalbag. Zalbag feels a sharp 
pain all over his body. Using the stone's power Adramelk 
destroys Zalbag in front of Ramza.]

Adramelk: Now it's your turn... You'll regret opposing me!

[Ramza dashed at the demon but realized he wouldn't make it in 
time. Adramelk sent off a few bolts. One of the bolts just 
missed his ribs, but had managed to lance the skin. Ramza 
threw his other sword at Adramelk. Adramelk easily counters. 
Ramza lifted his sword and attacked. The sword stabbed through 
Adramelk's body.]

Adramelk: Shit! It's still not right. If only 'Bloody Ange;' 
were here this wouldn't have happened...

[With that the demon disappeared with the lightning. The holy 
stone fell on the ground.]

Ramza: This is the end of the Beoulve's... Names don't 
matter... What's important is how you live your life. Alma... 
I must save Alma!


- Inside of St. Murond Temple -
-------------------------------

[Losing many allies and having many stones stolen, Vormav 
commenced an attack on the High Priest. After killing the High 
Priest's bodyguard, Vormav puts his sword straight through the 
High Priest's body.]

Funeral: You're...betraying...me...

[Vormav pulls out his sword from Funeral's body.]

Vormav: If you'd confessed all, I'd have kept you alive. I 
didn't mean to take such drastic measures, but I don't have 
much time left.

Funeral: Wha, What do you mean?

Vormav: I was going along with you to get the Zodiac Stone... 
But now that the kid took most of them, it was all for 
nothing.

[The High Priest stretches out his hand to beg mercy.]

Funeral: S...Spare me...

Vormav: That wound is deep, but not fatal. If you treat it 
soon, you'll be ok. Now, if you value your life, tell me where 
the entrance to Murond is!!

Funeral: Orbonne...A sealed Magic Square at the bottom of the 
underground library.

Vormav: How do I break the seal?

Funeral: I don't know...it might be written in the scriptures.

[Vormav slaps Funeral's hand.]

Vormav: That kid again!

[Vormav eye signals Rofel, who's standing behind Funeral, 
holding a katana.]

Vormav: I'm through with you.

[Vormav leaves the room along with Kletian. Funeral stretches 
his hand out again.]

Funeral: Please...spare me.

[Rofel lifts the katana and stabs it on Funeral's back. 
Meanwhile, Ramza and his troop stood before St. Murond 
Temple.]


- St. Murond Temple -
---------------------

Shrine Knight Magician: Stop! Only the Priest is allowed in 
here! What business do you have at Murond Temple? Identify 
yourself!!

Ramza: My name is Ramza, Ramza Beoulve! I'm here for my 
sister, Alma Beoulve, who was kidnapped by Vormav!

Magician: Heresy Ramza!! What a fool to come so openly! I will 
execute your sentence here and now!!

[After fighting for some time, the sound of scream escaped 
from the mouth of the Magician as Ramza pulls out his sword 
from his body. Ramza glanced his surroundings for more 
enemies, but there were none. The other shrine knights were 
already injured or killed by Ramza's troop. ]

Ramza: Alma...I'm coming! Just hold on...!!


- Hall of St. Murond Temple -
-----------------------------

[Ramza and his party sttod before the three shrine knights; 
Vormav, Rofel and Kletian.]

Vormav: So, you're Ramza... Nice meeting you... I'd ask you to 
dinner, but I'm too busy... Forgive me. I don't have too much 
time. So, let me get down to business. If you want your 
sister, give me the Germonik scriptures and all the Zodiac 
Stones. If you don't do what I say, your lovely sister is 
dead. Now, hand them over!!

Ramza: Where's Alma? Unless you show me her now, I'll not hand 
over the scriptures or the stones!

Vormav: Didn't you hear me? You have no choice. I'll say it 
again. Hand them over!

[Ramza steps forward and brings out the Germonik scriptures.]

Ramza: Only the scriptures! I'll give you the stone only after 
I see Alma!

[Ramza puts the book down on the ground and slowly walks away. 
Rofel steps up and picks up the book. He then flips the 
pages.]

Vormav: Well?

Rofel: ....It's here. It's a simple curse.

Vormav: Good, now that we know, they're finished. I could let 
him go, but I'll get revenge for Velius and the others.

Ramza: You deceived me!!

[Ramza pulled his sword out of his sheath just in time to 
parry the blow from Vormav. Ramza danced around with Vormav 
waiting for him to make the move.]

Ramza: Why do you let Alma live?

Vormav: What?

Ramza: You even killed your own son. Why do you keep Alma 
alive?

Vormav: That's none of your affair. If you want to know, kill 
me.

Meliadoul: Father... Are you really my father?

Vormav: Of course, dear daughter. Why are you over 'there'? 
When did you become the enemy?

Meliadoul: That's because you're not the father who used to 
be.

Vormav: What do you mean?

Meliadoul: At Limberry, Marquis Elmdor used the Zodiac Stones 
to turn into a monster. Father, wasn't it you who killed the 
people at Riovanes Castle and also Izlude?

Vormav: You're saying we're monsters?

Meliadoul: !! You're not my father...

[Vormav's sword moved, Ramza dodged the blow and counter 
attacked, cutting through his armor.]

Vormav: I won't be beaten here. I must escape!

[Vormav and co. escapes.]

Ramza: Running away? Coward!

[Ramza and his party goes after Vormav and catches up with 
him.]


- Chapel of St. Murond Temple -
-------------------------------

Vormav: No more time to waste... I want to end this now, but 
you probably won't go quietly... I'm afraid your life must end 
here. My servants will be your opponents. A coffin...just the 
thing for you. Rest in peace.

[Vormav using the stone's power, summons demons.]

Vormav: This man will be your opponent...

[Zalbag appears.]

Ramza: Zalbag!!

Vormav: He maybe your brother, but he's joined our family. 
Think you can fight with him? Ha, ha...

[Vormav disappears into the darkness laughing.]

Ramza: Dirty --!!

Vormav's Voice: Zalbag, kill the boy before you! Don't let him 
leave this temple alive!!

Ramza: Brother! Zalbag!! It's me!!

Zalbag: Is that you, Ramza...? What...am I doing? Can't feel a 
thing...

Ramza: You're being controlled by Lucavi!!

Zalbag: I'm...fighting...you? Why...? Go Ramza, Run! Or 
else...I might...kill you.

Ramza: Brother!!

[Ramza leaps out of the way as Zalbag's sword misses him.]

Zalbag: Please...Ramza. Kill...me... I'm in pain...no feeling 
in my hands and feet, yet it hurts...all over... The scariest 
part is... I'm slowly losing my memory.

Ramza: You'll be ok, Zalbag!! I'm sure there's a way! So, 
don't give up!! Please, don't give up!

Zalbag: No, hurry up and... kill me...I'm in pain... I hear 
voices...talking...crying...calling...taunting. Do 
something...Help me...Hurry and...kill me.

Ramza: Damn that Vormav!!

[Crying, Ramza charged at Zalbag, sword out. The sword goes 
straight through Zalbag's body as if it were cotton. Ramza 
falls on his knees.]

Zalbag: I'm so sorry, Ramza... to make you...suffer. 
Save...Alma... You're the only one... who can... I...have to 
go now...Goodbye...Ramza... Thank you......

[Zalbag falls down on the ground and vanishes.]

Ramza: Zalbaaaaaag!!


- Inside of St. Murond Temple -
-------------------------------

[Ramza goes further inside the temple. Meanwhile, the old man 
lay on the ground, a katana still quivering in his back. His 
bodyguards were on the ground dead as a stone.]

(Funeral's thoughts: ...somebody...)

[Ramza enters the room.]

Ramza: How awful.

Funeral: Help...hel...p...

Ramza: Hold on...hold on!

Funeral: Sh...shr...shrine...

Ramza: You know where they went? Where? Where did they go?

Funeral: Or...Orbon...ne...

[Breathing his last breath, the High Priest Funeral died.]

Ramza: Orbonne Monastery...

[Ramza and his party heads to Orbonne to stop Vormav.]


                    -- Orbonne Monastery --
                    =======================

            - Underground Book Storage Fourth Floor -
              -------------------------------------

Rofel: Stay and stand guard!! I'll go after Vormav!!

Shrine Knight: Yes, sir!

[Rofel goes down after Vormav. Ramza and his troop arrives.]

Ramza: What's in this underground library?

[Ramza's troop kills the guards protecting the entrance to the 
fifth floor. A conversation is heard from the entrance.]

Rofel: Leave this to me...

Vormav: I'm counting on you, Rofel.

Rofel: ...Fel...Cao...De...Nda...! Zeede...m...Fe...rio... I 
am...the one...with...the Time God...open...this gate...!

Ramza: I won't let you go!!

[Ramza hearing the conversation, heads down to stop them.]


- Underground Book Storage Fifth Floor -
----------------------------------------

Rofel: I've been waiting for you, Ramza. That's far enough! 
Rest eternally beneath this monastery!

Ramza: This feeling...same as when I fought Celia and Lede!! 
You are not human.

Rofel: No, I am not...I've risen above humans... I have 
obtained eternal life with the help of Vormav's power... Hee, 
hee, hee... You can't understand the joy.

Ramza: What are you trying to do? What do you want?

Rofel: Do you really want to know, Ramza? If you do, then 
you'll have to beat me. That is, if you can...

[Grabbing his sword hard, Ramza rushes forward. Rofel uses his 
mighty sword ability and knocks Ramza away. Recovering from 
the blow, Ramza stands up. Orlandu throws a blow on Rofel and 
manages to wound Rofel's left arm. Ramza seeing the 
opportunity throws a small dagger at Rofel. The dagger strikes 
home in Rofel's body.]

Rofel: I can't die here. I haven't finished my duty... 
Ramza...... I invite you to Hell.........Fareth Kaos De 
Vanda!! Zoeda Remdo Feolio... I am the one together with the 
Time God Zomala who can open this gate! Dejeon!!

[The floor starts to shake. Beams of light flashes around the 
room and explodes, covering the room with mist. The mist soon 
disappears along with everybody. Ramza appears in a room along 
with Rofel.]

Ramza: What is this?

Rofel: Welcome...to Murond, Death City. Now that you're 
here... you can never return... All we have to do now is to 
destroy that entrance...

[Rofel raises his hand and mumbles something. A ball of energy 
forms in Rofel's hand. The ball of energy disappears and the 
entrance collapses into pieces.]

Rofel: Go on... Your sister is waiting...

[Rofel dies.]

Ramza: Alma...

[Ramza leaves the room and ventures outside and meets up with 
his party. Ramza and his party comes across Kletian and his 
troop.]


                    -- Murond Death City --
                    =======================

Kletian: So Rofel's been defeated? Then, unless I defeat you 
here, I can't face Rofel... Come on!!

[Ramza's troop goes head on with Kletian's troop.]

Ramza: Where's Vormav!? Where did he go!?

Kletian: Where? What an odd thing to say... We came to Death 
City to revive our master. He slumbers in this world 
incomplete parts. Vormav is heading for the master's resting 
place... where St. Ajora died!

Ramza: Where is that!? Where!?

Kletian: You'll have to defeat me to find out!?

[The battle began. Ramza fired an arrow. The stray arrow got 
Kletian while the battle ensued. Kletian falls down on the 
ground, wounded. Ramza and his troop finishes off Kletian's 
troop.]

Kletian: Ugh...F...Forgive me...Rofel......

[Kletian dies. A loud thunderclap booms in the distance.]

Ramza: Over there!?


                  -- Lost Sacred Precincts --
                  ==========================

[Ramza faces Balk, the Temple Knight who died in a battle at 
Bed Deserts with Ramza.]

Balk: Nice to see you, kid. I was beaten before, but not this 
time. I'll make Death City your grave!!

Ramza: You turned into one of Lucavi's too... You'd sink that 
low just to live? What a pity!!

Balk: It's pretty nice, kid. I'm finally a real human being!

Ramza: I wouldn't call selling your soul to the devil human!

Balk: I'm above 'death'. At the top of the human race. Now I 
don't have to endure unjust treatment by you aristocrats!! 
I've won true 'freedom'! I'm a true 'human being'! I will be 
treated 'equally' now!!

Ramza: A real 'human being'? Don't make me laugh!! How 
valuable is a 'freedom' you didn't earn yourself? The moment 
'pride' is lost, 'freedom' is also lost...!! You lost your 
freedom when you lost your pride and confidence....!! 
'Equality's not something you're given! It's something you 
fight for!! Any 'freedom' gotten from Lucavi isn't true 
freedom.

[The two men goes head on. Ramza throws a jawbreaker punch at 
Balk and scores. Balk regains consciousness from the punch and 
fires a bullet from his gun. The bullet misses Ramza by few 
inches. Ramza pulls out his sword and attacks. The attack 
knocks Balk's gun far away. Without any weapon, Balk backs and 
trips over. Ramza stabs his sword on the fallen opponent.]

Balk: I'm...dying? I thought I'd risen over 'death'...

[Ramza pulls out his sword. Balk dies.]

Ramza: The Stone is sympathizing. That way...


                  -- Graveyard of Airships --
                  ===========================

[Vormav is seen kneeling before the unconscious Alma.]

Vormav: ...Why? Why doesn't Virgo work?

[Vormav stands up.]

Vormav: The Holy Angel's spirit is around in here... Why...? 
Maybe it's Ajora reincarnated...? ...No, that can't be. 
Certainly, Virgo did react.

[Vormav looks up.]

Vormav: ...You're here.

[Ramza and his troop stands before Vormav.]

Ramza: That's far enough, Vormav! Virgo's not working! So give 
up and hand over Alma!!

Vormav: No, it will work... It just needs more... You didn't 
hear? It just needs more blood... Lots of blood is needed for 
the Angel's resurrection. Much bloodshed since Ajora's death, 
but I guess it wasn't enough... I guess I'll have to go on 
another rampage...!! Heh, heh, heh.... Don't worry... I'll 
'sacrifice' you first.

[Vormav using the stones power, changes into Hashmalum.]

Hashmalum: Master, 'Bloody Angel'... Let me offer you 'blood' 
darker than wine and hotter than burning lava!

[Ramza's troop attacks Hashmalum while Ramza rushes towards 
his sister.]

Ramza: Alma! Hold on! Please! Open your eyes!! Alma!!

Hashmalum: It's no use... You cannot wake her...

Ramza: What have you done to Alma!?

Hashmalum: Her existence impedes our goal... When she wakes, 
she will remember her mission... Her important mission to call 
our allies...

[Orlandu manages to stab Excalibur on Hashmalum. One of 
Ramza's archers fires a bolt at Hashmalum. The bolt sails 
through the air and into Hashmalum's body. Hashmalum kills the 
archer with his magic. Ramza rushes forward and stabs his 
sword on Hashmalum. Hashmalum knocks Ramza away and pulls out 
Ramza's sword from his body. He then throws the sword away. 
Ramza stands up and picks up his sword.]

Hashmalum: Master... you are not awake yet?

[The stone responds and Alma wakes up.]

Alma: Ugh...Wh...Where am I...?

Ramza: Alma!!

Alma: Brother...Ramza?

Hashmalum: I won't let you interfere. Bloody Angel!! I 
offer...my own life...for your resurrection...!!

[Seeing that he can't win. Hashmalum tears his body open and 
sacrifices himself for the Angel's resurrection. The stone 
falls from Hashmalum's body and flashes. The stone on Alma's 
body responds. A light of beam shines down from the sky onto 
Alma, resurrecting St. Ajora.]

St. Ajora: I have my body back...

Ramza: Alma!!

[The Holy Stone shines.]

St. Ajora: Ugh...what...What is this?

[The stone flashes again.]

St. Ajora: Ugh...Ugh... He...Help...Brother...

[Ramza rushes towards Ajora.]

Ramza: Alma!!

St. Ajora: Brother Ramza... Stop...Don't interfere... 
Do...not...inter...fere... Do...not...inter...!!!

[Another light of beam shines down on Ajora and splits Alma 
from Ajora.]

Ramza: Alma!! Are you ok!?

Alma: ...Brother... I'm...alright... We have 
to...kill...Ajora...Hurry...

St. Ajora: Are you...trying to...stop my...resurrection... I 
won't...let you...come out...my servants.

[Ajora summons his servants.]

St. Ajora: I will not let anyone prevent my resurrection...!

[A flash of lights surrounds Ajora's body and a ball of energy 
forms around Ajora. The ball of energy explodes, turning Ajora 
into Altima.]

Altima: Prepare yourselves...powerless ones!

[Ramza's troop ensues a battle with Ajora's servants. Ajora's 
servants kills one of Ramza's monk. Orlandu rushes forward and 
sticks a sword through the demon. While that was happening, 
Altima went forward to kill Alma. Seeing this, Ramza runs at 
Altima with his sword tightly gripped. He sends a blow and 
strikes Altima's back. A pool of blood drips down from 
Altima's back. The injured Ajora looks back at Ramza just in 
time to see Ramza's sword go straight through his body. Altima 
looks at Ramza in disbelieve.]

Altima: No... This can't be... You're the descendant of the 
one who killed me before. No...I won't be beaten... I will not 
be beaten...

[Altima disappears along with his dead servants. Suddenly a 
huge hurl of light appears on top of Ramza's troop. The light 
fades away revealing the huge skeleton Altima.]

Altima: I will...kill you!!


  Ramza and his troop closes their eyes and prepares to face
   their destiny. For the world now lies in their hands. The
 battle was long and hard. But the right-hearted heroes saves
                 the world and destroys evil.


Altima: More...power.........

[Lights and energy surrounds the area. The ship explodes along 
with Altima, Ramza and his troop.]


- Graveyard -
-------------

[People have arrived here to pay their respects to Alma 
Beoulve.]

Priest: With the Father's blessing, you shall return to Earth. 
Guide Alma Beoulve's soul to Heaven with St, Ajora's divine 
protection... Farlem...

Everybody: ...Farlem.

[The people starts to leave.]

Mourner (Old man): What a pity. She was so young. 

Mourner (Old woman): All the siblings gone...

Mourner (Middle-aged man): The youngest, Ramza won't even be 
buried. Sad...

Mourner (Middle-aged woman): Beoulve's 300 year history is 
over now...

[All the people leaves. Olan and Balmafula comes.]

Olan: I'm sorry I'm late... Alma, Ramza. I wanted to come 
earlier, but it was too dangerous... Too risky...

[Balmafula puts a bundle of flowers on top of Alma's grave.]

Olan: Delita married Ovelia. A commoner brings peace to a 
chaotic kingdom, marries the Princess, becoming King. A legend 
that will be passed down for centuries. Delita may be a good 
person as you said... He made it look like he killed her then 
let her go, when her identity was clear. I guess he identified 
with her, having been used by Vormav...

[Balmafula points to an area. Olan nods and she leaves.]

Olan: Did my father die fighting heroically?

[Olan shakes his head.]

Olan: ......I'll come back again. Bye...

[Olan walks away and stops. He then looks back.]

Olan: Are you really dead? I still can't believe you're really 
dead... I mean...you know...

[Ramza and Alma appears riding chocobos.]

Olan:!!

[The two leaves the area. Olan runs after them.]

Olan: Wait! Ramza! Alma!

[The two disappears into the shadows. Balmafula comes.]

Olan: ...He's alive! Alive!!

[Olan and Balmafula stares at the direction they went.]

Olan: ...Thank you. Ramza.


=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

[Ending Full Motion Video: Ramza and Alma, riding in chocobos, 
walks through the forest and comes across a ruin. The two 
chocobos drinks water from the nearby river. Dawn arrives and 
the two heads into the direction of the sun. The sun fades.]

     Since then,
     no one has caught sight of the two.

     Olan Durai reminisces in such a manner...

     Where does one find good fortune?    
     What possesses them to live for the present?
     What treasures will they leave behind?

     The only thing certain is that
     he is the true hero, indeed.

     Years later,
     Olan Durai collected his experiences over
     a period of 5 years into a single syllabus.

     This Collection known as the "Durai papers"
     were to be presented at Prince Clemence's
     meeting during which the new possessor of
     the throne was to be selected,
     
     but the church which feared public
     disclosure of the truth decided to
     arrest Durai and burn him at the stake
     for the crime of heresy.

     The retrieved Durai papers were then
     confiscated by the church for several
     hundred years.

     But I have uncovered the truth...
     Let me now revive his honor.
     Let his way of life be absorbed by
     the next generation.

                            Author of the Brave Story,
                                        Alazlam Durai

                           And the author of this FAQ,
                                   Tsogtsaihan Baatar


                     #---#--#--#--#--#---#
                     FINAL FANTASY TACTICS
                          
                          +---------+
                         -+- Staff -+-
                          +=========+

                      Executive Producer
                         Tetsuo Mizuno
                       Tomoyuki Takechi

                          Produced by
                      Hironobu Sakaguchi

                          Co-Producer
                        Michio Okamiya

                    Written and Directed by
                        Yasumi Matsuno

                        Game Design by
                         Hiroyuki Ito

                         Art Direction
                       Hiroshi Minagawa

                      Character Design by
                        Akihiko Yoshida

                         Main Program
                         Taku Murata

                   Music & Original Score by
                    Masaharu "Rezon" Iwata
                   Hitoshi "YmoH.S" Sakimoto


                      . BATTLE SECTION .

                         Main Planner
                         Hiroyuki Ito

                      Additional Planner
                        Takayuki Suguro

                          Programmers
                       Kazuhisa Marakami
                          Taku Murata
                      Yoshinori Tsuchida


                    . BATTLE MAP SECTION .

                           Planners
                        Tsukasa Fujita
                       Daisuke Fukugawa
                         Kiminori Ono

                      Artistic Supervisor
                         Hideo Minaba

                      Creators (Artists)
                          Yuko Abiru
                          Yuki Azuma
                         Akane Haruki
                        Nobuyuki Ikeda
                        Akiyoshi Masuda
                        Koji Matsushita
                         Yuka Migamoto
                        Toshiyuki Mogi
                         Tsutomu Mouri
                          Rena Sasaki
                         Yukiko Sasaki
                        Sachiko Tanabe
                        Takaharu Tanaka
                        Misako Tsutsui
                      Takahiro Yamashita

                      Assistant Creators
                         Shin Ienaka
                       Hiroshi Kitakami

                          Programmer
                         Kazuo Suzuki


                     . CHARACTER SECTION .

                      Artistic Supervisor
                        Fumiyasu Sasaki

                      Character Animators
                         Micko Hoshino
                        Konomi Ishizuka
                         Kiyofumi Kato
                       Toshiaki Matsumoto
                        Eiichiro Nakatsu
                        Tsuyoshi Namiki
                         Makoto Sawano
                        Yuichi Shioton

                          Programmers
                          Taku Murata
                      Yoshinori Tsuchida


                   . VISUAL EFFECT SECTION .

                      Artistic Supervisor
                          Tiro Mifune

                      Designers (Artists)
                      Yoshimasa Furukawa
                         Noriko Ikeda
                         Taizo Inukai
                          Yuko Hatae

                          Programmer
                         Satoshi Ogata


                       . EVENT SECTION .

                          Directed by
                       Hiroshi Minagawa

                           Planners
                         Jun Akiyama
                      Hiroyoshi Okazaki
                        Nobuyuki Inoue
                       Kazutoyo Maehiro

                          Programmer
                        Tetsuji Iwasaki

                       World Map Program
                          Hiroshi Ono

                  Shop & Organization Program
                         Masaaki Kubo

                       Item Illustrator
                       Masaki Takahashi

                  Assistant Portrait Painter
                       Chiaki Nakanishi

                       Sound Programmer
                       Hidenori Suzuki

                        Sound Engineer
                        Motoko Watanabe

                         Sound Effects
                         Jun Nakamura
                         Kazumi Mitome
                        Shojiro Nakaoka

                   Recorded & Mixed Engineer
                        Kenji Nagashima

                     Synthesizer Operator
                    Toshikatsu Kashiwabara
                         (Smile Sound)


                       . MOVIE SECTION .

                          Directed by
                       Toshiyuki Momose

                    Production Coordinator
                       Keiko M. Randolph

                          Production
                    AnimaTek International

                 AnimaTek International Staff

                         Main Manager
                        Vadim Grigoriev

                          Art manager
                     Violetta Kolesnikova

                           Managers
                         Vadim Arefiev
                       Artem Kolomeitsev

                       Landscapes Artists
                          Anna Butina
                        Inna Cherreykina
                        Tatiana Kovtigika

                Skeleton Animator & Camera work
                         Sofia Asonova

                           Lighting
                         Vadim Sotskov

                      Character Modeling
                        Denis Trofimav
                        Vadim Sotskov
                       Sergey Fomichev
                       Irina Poleschuk
                     Victoria Kudriavtseva

               Architecture & 3D Object Creation
                        Svetlana Titova
                        Eleonora Slepko
                         Olga Novikova

               Scene Composing & Effect Creation
                    Viatcheslav Likhatchev
                     Alexander Karetnikov
                        Stanislav Panor
                         Egor Poleroy
                         Ilya Izergin


                      . MONITOR SECTION .

                       Chief Coordinator
                        Yoshia Shibano

                     Assistant Coordinator
                        Kenichi Miyake


                    . LOCALIZATION SECTION .

                         Coordinators
                           Aiko Ito
                     Jade Shiho Takahashi
                       Yoshinori Uenishi


                     . SQUARE SOFT, INC. .

                     Production Management
                       Masahiro Nakajima
                        Randy Fujimoto

                 Product Localization Director
                        Micheal Baskett

                     Assistant Translators
                         Naomi Cooper
                         Daisuke Kato

                           QA Manager
                       Jonathan Williams

                      Lead QA Technician
                         Clayton Chan

                         QA Technician
                         Sean Camanyag
                           Andy Hsu
                        Kyoko C. Makino
                   Yoshinobu "Nobby" Matsuo
                        Vang "Az" Moua
                          Stanford Ng
                          Takahiro So


                        . SCEA STAFF .

                      Assistant Producer
                          Jeffrey Ng

                      Associate Producer
                          Seth Luisi

                        Senior Producer
                         Perry Rodgers

                          Lead Tester
                         Conner Morlang

                       Licensing Manager
                         Etsuko Kobata

                     Marketing Management
                      Craig Rechenmacher
                        David Bamberger

                        Special Thanks

       S. Akiyama          S. Aira            Y. Ikeda          
       A. Kaneko           Y. Maekawa         R. Maruya
       K. Yamaguchi        T. Yamauchi        S. Yamashita


              Copyrights 1997/1998 SQUARE Co.,Ltd.
                      All Rights Reserved


           -- Ruins of Zeltennia Castle's church --

[Delita arrives at the ruins with his chocobo to meet Ovelia.]

King Delita: Here you are...Everyone's been looking for you.

[Delita hops down from his chocobo and walks over to Ovelia. 
He brings out some flowers from his back.]

King Delita: Today's your birthday, right? These flowers...

[Ovelia turns around and dashes towards at Delita. She stabs 
him with a small dagger. The flowers falls down from Delita's 
hand.]

King Delita: O....Ovelia...?

Queen Ovelia: You use everybody like that! Now, you'll kill me 
just like Ramza...!

[Delita pulls out the dagger from Ovelia's hand and stabs her 
with it. Ovela falls down on the ground and dies. Delita, 
holding his wound, backs away and drops the dagger. He then 
falls on his knees.]

King Delita: Ramza.... What did you get? I.........

[The screen fades.]

                                                
                                           ^--- THE END ---^



                     =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
                       Side Quest Script
                     =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Mustadio's House
----------------

[Besrodio, Mustadio's father, finds a big ball of steel. 
Mustadio and Ramza examines the treasure.]

Mustadio: This is what you found in the drift?

Besrodio: Yes, when I started digging last week at drift No. 
57. I tried to take it apart, but I didn't know what to prod 
where.

Mustadio: What is this steel ball?

[Ramza steps forward to take a closer look. The steel ball 
reacts to Ramza's holy stones.]

Mustadio: W, what is this?

Ramza: Did it respond to the stone?

Besrodio: What's this '?' mark?

[Having no clue, Ramza, Mustadio and their troop leaves Goug. 
Ramza and troop comes to Goland. Ramza walks inside the bar 
and hears a rumor.]


I------------------------------------------------------------I
|-- =-=-= =-= =-=-= =-= =-=- NEWS -=-= =-= =-=-= =-= =-=-= --|
|                                                            |
|                       Ghost of Colliery                    |
|                       =================                    |
| There are numerous coal mines in Goland, but a monster     |
| seems to have recently settled in one of them. A plan to   |
| gather Knights to suppress the monster was being made by   |
| the adminstration, but due to the war no progress has been |
| made. The adminstration put up a reward for anyone, from   |
| commoner to hunter, who slays the monster. All hope for a  |
| quick solution.                                            |
|                                                            |
I------------------------------------------------------------I

[After hearing this rumor, Ramza and troop heads north and 
comes to Lesalia. Ramza walks inside the bar and walks over to 
the counter.]

Lesalia's Bar
-------------

Bar Master: Welcome. Something to drink?

Ramza: Ok...milk please.

Bar Master: Ha, I like you. Never seen anyone order that at a 
bar. You must've seen a lot of bloodshed. But you don't drink, 
eh?

[Ramza hears a conversation between some people.]

Bar Patron #1: So it was true. There are monsters in Goland.

Bar Patron #2: Yeah, the coal mine shut down. We're in a fix.

Bar Patron #1: And we can't count on Knights either in this 
day and age.

Bar Patron #2: All of Goland's recruiting hunters, I hear.

Bar Master: Aren't you a hunter? You'd make good money.

Ramza: I don't care about the money. I can't leave people in 
need.

Bar Master: Wow, very impressive! If only Sir Balbanes were 
alive...

Bar Patron #2: But there's one that even a master hunter can't 
beat.

Bar Patron #1: Now, that's a big problem. What kind of a 
monster is it?

Bar Patron #2: It's called the Holly Dragon. Really unusual...

Bar Master: Are you going?

Ramza: Yeah. I'll just go and see.

Bar Master: Good luck.

[Ramza tries to leave the bar. A mysterious man stands up from 
his seat.]

Knight: If you're going to the coal mines, would you hire me?

Ramza: Who are you?

Knight: My name is Beowulf, I'm a hunter. I've been searching 
for this Holy Dragon. What do you think?

Ramza: 1. No thank you.
       2. Let's go together.
       ---------------------


Ramza: < 1. No thank you. >
---------------------------

Ramza: I'm sorry, but no thanks.

Beowulf: ...That's too bad. See ya.

- Nothing happens so go with Number 2 -


Ramza: < 2. Let's go together. >
--------------------------------

Ramza: Ok, let's go together.

Beowulf: You can pay me later. Let's go

[The two sets off to Goland and heads inside the mine. Upon 
further inside the mine, the two finds the Holy Dragon 
surrounded by monsters.]

Goland Colliery underground First floor
---------------------------------------

Schinoeg: You don't have to have that Stone... If you value 
your life, hand it over now!!

Beowulf: Reis! I looked all over for you! Hold on, I'll save 
you!

[The knight runs over at the monsters and sends one of them to 
their doom. Along with Ramza's help, the knight manages to 
save the Holy Dragon.]

Beowulf: Thank you, Ramza. Thanks to you, I was able to save 
Reis.

Ramza: You were looking for this dragon?

Beowulf: Yes, she's more important to me than life itself. I 
truly thank you.

[Beowulf brings out a holy stone from his pocket and gives it 
to Ramza.]

Beowulf: Weren't you looking for this?

Ramza: Why do you...?

Beowulf: I owe "them" one. Just like you.

Ramza: Who are you?

Beowulf: Not your enemy. Trust me.

Ramza: The more the merrier. I'll trust you. Now, let's get 
out of here. 

Mustadio's House
----------------

[Ramza and Mustadio tries to insert the 'Aquarius' stone 
inside the big steel ball.]

Mustadio: Will it really work with the stone?

Besrodio: You saw it too, right? I'm sure it does.

[Ramza inserts the stone.]

Mustadio: Hey, look! It moved!

[The steel ball transforms into a big giant robot. The giant 
robot tries to move but fails.]

Mustadio: ....No? No go?

[The giant's red eyes glows.]

Steel Giant: System set up completed! Everything is normal! 
Master, what is your order?

Mustadio: Wow! It spoke!!

Steel Giant: Master, your order, please!

Mustadio: Ramza, give him an order.

Ramza: What!? An order? No, I'm scared!!

Mustadio: Don't be silly. You're his master!

Steel Giant: Repeat, order, please!

Ramza: Well...well then... Dance!!

Mustadio: Do better than that!

Ramza: A, all right...

[The robot starts to dance.]

Mustadio: He's...dancing...... I wonder if he's strong?

Steel Giant: I...am...very...strong!

Ramza: Well...well then... Beat Mustadio up!!

Mustadio: Do better than that!

[The robot looks at Mustadio. Mustadio freaks out. The robot 
sends a huge wave of energy at Mustadio. Mustadio goes down 
cold.]

Ramza: Help! Phoenix down! Where's the Phoenix down?

-----

[Besrodio, the father of Mustadio, found another 'Past 
Treasure'.]

Mustadio: Father, what's this big one?

Besrodio: I built it from stuff found at drift No. 83, but 
uh...

Ramza: It looks like a heavenly globe.

Besrodio: Now that you mention it... I guess it does, hmm...

[The machine reacts to Ramza's holy stones.]

Mustadio: W, what was that?

Ramza: It responded to the stone again?

Besrodio: What's this '?' mark for? Holy Stone... ...indeed.

Ramza: You want us to search for it right? Oh well...

[The party sets out and searches for this particular holy 
stone. The party tumbles at Zeltennia and hears a rumor.]

I------------------------------------------------------------I
|-- =-=-= =-= =-=-= =-= =-=- NEWS -=-= =-= =-=-= =-= =-=-= --|
|                                                            |
|                    Cursed Island, Nelveska				 |
|                    =======================                 |
| Nelveska Island, an island that lies 8000 doma north of    |
| Zeltennia. In the center of the island are many temple     |
| graves. It was a critical area used by guerillas resisting |
| the enemy. Known as a paradise for its lush greenery, the  |
| fishermen call it a 'Cursed Island.' and "A fearsome iron  |
| sentinel will kill all those who approach."                |
|                                                            |
I------------------------------------------------------------I

[Upon hearing this rumor, the party heads off to Nelveska.]

Nelveska Temple
---------------

[A big sentinel comes out from the temple.]

Worker 7.new: Warning! Warning! Warning! Civilians are 
prohibited here! you have 30 seconds to leave this area! 30... 
29... 28... 27... 26... 25... 24... 23... 22...System error! 
3... 2... 1... Genocide Mode! Researchers, evacuate to the 
shelter immediately!!

[The party fights the robot.]

Worker 7.new: Cannot charge energy! System down! Connecting to 
Reserve Circuit!

[The party defeats the robot.]

Worker 7.new: Self Destruct Mode! Begin countdown! 30... 29... 
28... 27... 26... 25...System Error.

[The robot explodes. A holy stone falls down from the busted 
robot. The party recovers the holy stone. Beowulf and Ramza 
has conversation.]

Ramza: No way... This dragon?

Beowulf: The evidence is clear. If I use 'Cancer', the Zodiac 
Stone I won this last battle, I can surely...

[The holy dragon appears.]

Beowulf: C'mon, don't be afraid. Try it.

[The holy dragon enters the temple. The ground starts to 
shake. Mist surrounds the area. A beautiful woman comes out 
from the temple.]

Beowulf: Reis...Is that you?

[Beowulf and Reis hugs.]

Reis: Beowulf, I missed you.

Beowulf: Reis...my love.

[The party heads back to Mustadio's house.]

Mustadio's House
----------------

[Ramza prepares to insert the holy stone, they received from 
the robot, inside the weird machine Besrodio found.] 

Mustadio: It can't 'morph', can it?

Ramza: I guess you'll find out.

[Ramza inserts the holy stone inside the machine.]

Mustadio: Here he comes!

[Light shines on the machine from above. From the mist a man 
appears.]

Summoned young man: What happened? Last thing I remember was 
getting caught in the current.

Besrodio: Hum, I've read about this before. It could be some 
forwarding device.

Mustadio: Forwarding device?

Besrodio: You know, to travel to other worlds, different 
space.

Ramza: So, he came from other space?

Besrodio: Maybe. Look at his clothes, Quite unusual.

Summoned young man: My....name's Cloud. yes...Cloud.

Ramza: I'm Ramza. They're my friends....

Cloud: I don't care about names. What I need is a battlefield. 
Yeah...that's it...I'm a member of SOLDIER.

Mustadio: What a jerk!

[A strange sound starts to ring in Cloud's head.]

Cloud: What's this? My fingers are tingling... My 
eyes...they're burning... Stop...stop it.... phiros...

Mustadio: He's strange.

Cloud: I must go...must go to that place...

[Cloud runs out.]

Mustadio: Who was he?

[The party runs after Cloud.]

Zarghidas Trade City
--------------------

[Clout walks through the streets of Zarghidas. A girl comes 
out.]

Flower Girl: Buy a flower? Only 1 gil.

Cloud: ......

Flower Girl: Something wrong? Do I resemble someone?

Cloud: No...it's nothing.

[Cloud walks away.]

Flower Girl: What's wrong with him?

[Few men appears from the shadows and surrounds the girl.]

Flower Girl: W, what...?

Town Knave: I've been looking for you, Aeris... Selling 
flowers for your mom? Good for you...

Flower Girl: Then more days.... No, just wait a week, please.

[The town knave grabs the girl by her neck.]

Knave: Don't mess with me! It's overdue! I'm gonna get my 
30000 gil, one way or another!

Flower Girl: Let...go of me!

[The town knave examines the girl.]

Knave: Hmm, pretty good looking! Oughta try sellin' your body 
instead of flowers. Hee, hee.

[The knaves starts to laugh.]

Cloud: Get your hand off her!

[Cloud appears.]

Knave: What did you say!?

Cloud: Didn't you hear me? Get your dirty hand off her!

[The town knave takes his hand from the girl's neck and grabs 
Cloud's shirt.]

Knave: Who the hell are you? Dressed in funny clothes!

[Cloud knocks the knave. The knave falls down on the ground. 
Clout turns around at the girl.]

Cloud: Go...now...

[The girl runs away. The knave stands up.]

Knave: Bastard, taking me for a fool!

Cloud: You want to fight?

[The screeching sound rings again in his head. Cloud falls 
down on his knees and grabs his head.]

Cloud: ...U, uggh...

Knave: Who the hell are you?

[Ramza arrives at the scene.]

Ramza: Cloud! Are you OK?

Knave: Damn! Eaaggh!!

[The knave tries to score a blow on Cloud's face with his 
knee. Cloud sees the upcoming blow and rolls left. The knave 
misses. Cloud brings out his Materia Blade and blows the knave 
away using samurai spirit. With the help of Ramza, Cloud 
defeats the knaves.]

Cloud: I lost...a very important thing...

Ramza: Cloud......?

Cloud: Ever since, I've been lost. Who am I? What should I do? 
What about this pain...

Ramza: Cloud...there's someone in your world waiting for you. 
We might be able to send you back where you came from by using 
the stone's power.

Cloud: Let's go, Ramza. I can't be here. Must go...to the 
Promised Land.

[After rescuing Cloud. Ramza heads back to Goug and travels to 
Warjilis. Upon coming to Warjilis, Ramza walks inside the 
bar.]

Warjilis Bar
------------

[Ramza sees a Knight and a Priest near the counter.]

Knight: This job's been a great success!

Priest: Not to brag, but you can all thank me!

Bar Master: Hmm, Count Minimum has his problems too.

[Ramza overhears a conversation between some people.]

Bar Patron: Then, it was true. The legend of the island's 
treasures...

Bar Patron #1: Yeah, I hear there's lots of riches inside that 
cave.

Bar Patron: Hmm, but those caves have lots of traps, right?

Bar Patron #1: Not only traps...but I hear there's scary 
magicians there also.
 
Bar Patron: Yikes! It doesn't matter how many lives you got!

Bar Patron #1: Not even a flicker of light in there. No place 
for wimps. 

Bar Patron: What was the name of that cave? D...D...Depo 
Dungeon?

Bar Patron #1: It's 'Deep Dungeon', right?

[The Knight and the Priest starts to argue near the counter.]

Knight: Wha? This job was a great success because of ME!

Priest: Why're you talking so big? ...You talk weird too!

[The Priest pushes the Knight. The Priest turns around and 
sees Ramza.]

Priest: This ain't no show! Go away!

[Ramza walks out and heads to the Deep Dungeon. After 
wandering around the caves with his troops, Ramza comes in 
front a mysterious magician.]

Deep Dungeon: END
-----------------

Elidibs: Who disturbs my meditation? Hmm...I feel the vibes 
from the Zodiac Stones. Is that what you're after? Well 
then...I'll show you the power I get through 'unity'.

[The magician brings out a zodiac stone and uses it on 
himself. The magician turns into a demon.]

Elidibs: If you want to live, give me the Zodiac Stone. Or 
you'll find out how weak humans really are!

[After a fierce and long battle, Ramza and his troops barely 
defeats the magician.]

Elidibs: This can't be happening... I'm not supposed to 
lose...

[The magician dies. The Zodiac Stone falls down. Ramza picks 
up the Zodiac Stone and leaves the cave.]
 
                                               -- {The End} --


                  +=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+
                      Zodiac Brave Story
                  +=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+=--=+
                     
                     'Germonik Scriptures'
                      -------------------
             I picked up the 'Germonik Scriptures'
             Simon gave me and flipped through the
                           pages...
            The text was in an ancient holy script
                   with drawings in places.
               It was damaged and hard to read.
              I wondered what was written in it?

              Then, I saw some words in a language 
                         I recognized.
              Somebody had written some notes in
                     the "Ikoku language"
                    Who could have done it?

            Judging from the ink, the older notes,
             were written years ago. But the newer
               ones were written only days ago.
                 It smudged when I rubbed it.
                   The ink was not yet dry.
             They were written by the same person.
            I realized Simon had been slowly trans-
               lating this book over the years.

              ...tried reading it by referring to
                      his partial notes.

            It says, This is written by a follower
                   of St. Ajora, Germonik...
                         Germonik...?
                 I'd heard that name before...
                Must've been in history class.

                     Then, it came to me.
            Germonik was the disciple who betrayed
      St. Ajora by selling him to the Yudora Empire......
              It was amazing Germonik's book was 
                   even still in existence!

              Calming myself, I turned the pages.
             Then, I found something more amazing
            than the historical legacy in my hands.

            I thought Germonik compiled St. Ajora's
             words in this book. But I was wrong.
           It's a record of St. Ajora's activities.
                And not the St. Ajora we knew.
                A record of Ajora, the human.

              First off, St. Ajora is not human.
             I'm not a true believer in Glabados
            like Zalbag, but I do believe St. Ajora
             was a 'Child of God' sent from Heaven
                 to save this troubled world.
            Rather, I should say I did believe....
                   until I read this book...

               It was the golden age, when many
              airships flew all over the sky...

            The day St. Ajora was born in Bervenia
            of Lesalia, he stood up, walked to the
                        well and said.
           'Calamity will come from this well soon.
            We must seal it so people don't drink
                          the water.'

            Days later, plague swept over Bervenia.
            The people who drank the tainted water
                            died...
             But the only family who believed him
                 didn't get sick and survived.
            Since then, people called him 'Miracle
                    Child', 'Child of God'.

             When St. Ajora turned 20, he became a 
            'Saviour', and was sent to Heaven as 'a
                       member of God'...

            Long before Ivalice was united, it was
                divided into 7 small kingdoms.
             Zeltennia, Fovoham, Lionel, Limberry,
                  Lesalia, Gallionne, Murond.
             As the kingdoms continued to increase
            their territories, the wars continued.

            In the several hundred years of war, an
           ambitious young king was born in Murond.
              Though he lead an army large enough
           to cover Ivalice, th